Diagnosed hypertension is prevalent among African Americans ( Mozaffarian et al. , 2016 ) . 
Living with uncontrolled blood pressure can lead to negative outcomes , including endstage renal disease , stroke , myocardial infarction , or death ( Chobanian et al. , 2003 ) . 
Therefore , assisting African Americans to reduce elevated and maintain normotensive blood pressure ( < 140/90 mmHg ) has important public health relevance . 
One way to address this problem is to intervene early if patients reach the level of “ prehypertension ” ( > 120/79 mmHg ) . 
Self‐management behaviors help patients control high blood pressure ; this may prevent the progression of prehypertension into frank hypertension ( Whelton et al. , 2002 ) . 
According to Ryan and Sawin ( 2009 ) , self‐management consists of using knowledge , skills , and social facilitators to manage chronic conditions and engage in healthy behaviors . 
Such self‐management of elevated blood pressure typically entails patients finding , interpreting , and using blood pressure‐related health information . 
In addition , African Americans ' self‐management behavior is associated with sharing of information with peers , or other lay people who have hypertension , or are at risk for the condition ( Jones , Veinot , Pressler , Coleman‐Burns , & McCall , 2017 ; Jones , Wright , Wallace , & Veinot , 2017 ) . 
Research conducted with African American patients with chronic illness highlights the need for targeted interventions that support health information behavior to enhance self‐management ( Jones , Veinot , Pressler , Coleman‐Burns , et al. , 2017 ; Kaziunas , Ackerman , & Veinot , 2013 ) . 
One way to potentially optimize blood pressure self‐management interventions in African Americans is to inform these programs with findings from basic and translational neuroscience investigating the mechanisms associated with health information behavior and change ( Whelan , Morgan , Sherar , Orme , & Esliger , 2017 ) . 
Furthermore , understanding the neural mechanisms of information behaviors can advance the foundations of the discipline . 
Although researchers have examined the relationships between information behavior and health behavior ( Jones , Veinot , & Pressler , 2017 ; Meadowbrooke , Veinot , Loveluck , Hickok , & Bauermeister , 2014 ; Veinot , Meadowbrooke , Loveluck , Hickok , & Bauermeister , 2013 ) , few studies have investigated the neural mechanisms underlying similar health information behavior ( Moshfeghi , Pinto , Pollick , & Jose , 2013 ; Moshfeghi , Triantafillou , & Pollick , 2016 ) . 
The purpose of this substudy was to explore the relationships among information behavior ( seeking , sharing , and use , via self‐report ) and patterns of neural activation when individuals receive two types of health information ( analytic and empathic ) . 
The current study builds upon prior work that implicated these areas as crucial to effective information sharing and in behavior change ( for instance , Falk & Bassett , 2017 ; Falk , Berkman , Whalen , & Lieberman , 2011 ; Whelan et al. , 2017 ) . 
Health information is a critical resource for people with , or at risk of developing chronic illnesses . 
Information use refers to the application of information to help resolve a problem such as illness ( Kari , 2010 ) . 
Effective utilization of health information can help individuals make decisions ( Fox , 2009 ; Livneh & Martz , 2007 ) ; solve problems ( Endler & Parker , 1994 ; Farber , Mirsalimi , Williams , & McDaniel , 2003 ; Folkman & Greer , 2000 ; Stanton , Revenson , & Tennen , 2007 ) ; pursue or coordinate new lines of action ( Schaefer , Coyne , & Lazarus , 1981 ; Siegel & Krauss , 1991 ; Skinner , Edge , Altman , & Sherwood , 2003 ) ; use resources more effectively ( Moos & Tsu , 1977 ) ; gain emotional comfort ( Chen , 2015 ; Rubenstein , 2015 ; Wolf & Veinot , 2015 ) ; and change their behavior ( Case , 2012 ; Fox , 2009 ; Greyson & Johnson , 2015 ; Jones , Wright , et al. , 2017 ) . 
Each of these forms of help contribute to effective disease self‐management and health promotion . 
To promote blood pressure self‐management , healthcare professionals frequently provide verbal and written information to inform patients and to respond to patient questions ( Souden & Durrance , 2011 ) . 
Information seeking refers to actions taken by individuals to obtain the necessary information to resolve a need , such as a health concern ( Case , 2012 ; Lambert & Loiselle , 2007 ) . 
Patients frequently seek , share , and produce information outside of the healthcare setting ( Costello & Costello , 2017 ; Rubenstein , 2015 ; St Jean , 2017 ; Veinot et al. , 2013 ; Wolf & Veinot , 2015 ) . 
Information sharing refers to an exchange of information whether conveyed implicitly or explicitly , and may have fuzzy to well‐defined goals ( Talja & Hansen , 2006 ) —particularly in an everyday illness context ( Veinot , 2009 ) . 
An example of health information sharing is an individual conveying information on how to self‐manage blood pressure ( for instance , diet and exercise ) to family members or friends ( Fisher & McKechnie , 2005 ; Greyson & Johnson , 2015 ) . 
Health information sharing may be motivated by altruism , relationship building , enjoyment , self‐presentational needs , and the desire to influence the health behavior of others ( Abrahamson , Fisher , Turner , Durrance , & Turner , 2008 ; Veinot , Kim , & Meadowbrooke , 2011 ; Wolf & Veinot , 2015 ; Ziebland & Wyke , 2012 ) . 
Notably , although it has not yet been the subject of direct study , information sharing itself may have health implications . 
As our previous work indicates , African American women with hypertension who shared information about blood pressure management with other lay people were more likely to report using information to self‐manage their own blood pressure ( Jones , Veinot , & Pressler , 2017 ; Jones , Veinot , Pressler , Coleman‐Burns , et al. , 2017 ) . 
HIV testing behavior may also be linked to information sharing ( Veinot et al. , 2013 ) . 
Participants also preferred to share with family members and peers with whom they already had close relationships ( Abrahamson et al. , 2008 ; Cutrona et al. , 2016 ; Jones , Veinot , Pressler , Coleman‐Burns , et al. , 2017 ) . 
Although this work illustrates the value of health information behaviors , especially as it relates to African American women , little is known about the neural processes underlying health information behavior . 
A few information science pilot studies have examined neural processes associated with searching behavior when interacting with information retrieval systems . 
Mostafa , Carrasco , Foster , and Giovenallo ( 2015 ) asked participants to review displays of search results that varied both in terms of the type of question asked ( factual vs. topical ) and the precision of the results . 
Findings for brain areas associated with the factual questions were broadly consistent with brain areas associated with the factual condition used in this study . 
Similarly , Mostafa and Gwizdka ( 2016 ) found that participants were presented with both relevant and irrelevant search results ; the findings showed that this task activated the middle frontal gyrus , a part of the Analytic Network associated with decision‐making . 
Despite these early advances , there remain gaps in understanding neurological processes underlying a range of information behaviors and their possible connections to health behaviors . 
Therefore , following growing interest in the field of information science ( Gwizdka & Mostafa , 2017 ; Maior , Pike , Sharples , & Wilson , 2015 ; Mostafa & Gwizdka , 2016 ; O'Brien , Gwizdka , Lopatovska , & Mostafa , 2015 ) , we investigated relationships between information seeking , sharing , and use and the Default Mode Network ( DMN ) and Analytic Network . 
The Empathy Network is comprised of parts of the medial parietal cortex and neighboring posterior cingulate , dorsal medial prefrontal cortex , and temporo‐parietal junction ( Fox et al. , 2005 ; Schilbach et al. , 2012 ; Schilbach , Eickhoff , Rotarska‐Jagiela , Fink , & Vogeley , 2008 ; Figure 1 ) . 
The same set of brain regions are also known by other labels , such as the “ Mentalizing network ” ( Amodio & Frith , 2006 ) , “ Social Brain ” ( Mars et al. , 2012 ) , and the DMN ( Raichle & Snyder , 2007 ) . 
Notably , these brain regions correspond to the more dorsal ( or superior ) parts of the DMN . 
The theoretical and empirical data motivating the term “ Empathy Network ” have been explained at length elsewhere ( Boyatzis , Rochford , & Jack , 2014 ; Friedman , Jack , Rochford , & Boyatzis , 2015 ; Jack et al. , 2013 ; Jack , Friedman , Boyatzis , & Taylor , 2016 ) . 
The Empathy Network is strongly associated with social and emotional cognition , including “ Cognitive Empathy ” aka “ Mentalizing ” or “ Theory of Mind , ” that is , thinking about one 's own and others ' thoughts and feelings ( Denny , Kober , Wager , & Ochsner , 2012 ) , emotion regulation and safety signaling ( Marstaller , Burianová , & Reutens , 2016 ) , receiving and providing social support ( Eisenberger & Cole , 2012 ) , empathizing with others ( Powers , Chavez , & Heatherton , 2015 ; Rameson , Morelli , & Lieberman , 2012 ) , and evaluating the personal and social relevance of information ( Bartra , McGuire , & Kable , 2013 ) . 
The key region of the ventral DMN , located in the lower areas of the DMN , is the vmPFC ( Figure 1 ) . 
It is involved in motivational , emotional , and parasympathetic processing , as well as autobiographical memory ; hence , it has been described as the neural area responsible for generating “ affective meaning ” ( Roy , Shohamy , & Wager , 2012 ) . 
The vmPFC mediates links between social connection and health ( Eisenberger & Cole , 2012 ) . 
Activation of the vmPFC is robustly associated with information sharing ( Scholz et al. , 2017 ) and with health‐related behavior change ( Falk & Bassett , 2017 ; Whelan et al. , 2017 ) . 
There are good reasons to suppose that the psychological profiles of the Empathy Network and vmPFC may relate to the psychology of information behavior . 
First , information sharing is a social and personally meaningful activity , involving social cognition and hence the Empathy Network ( Veinot , 2010 ; Wolf & Veinot , 2015 ) , thus likely involving the vmPFC ( Falk & Bassett , 2017 ; Tompson , Lieberman , & Falk , 2015 ) . 
To illustrate these points , people are more likely to share information with others for whom they feel a sense of empathic concern , and information sharing fosters positive emotions ( Jones , Veinot , Pressler , Coleman‐Burns , et al. , 2017 ; Veinot , 2010 ) . 
Second , with regard to information use , individuals who feel socially supported and affirmed in their personal values corresponds to activation of the Empathy Network , which , in turn , facilitates the modification of behavior ( Cascio et al. , 2016 ; Crocker , Niiya , & Mischkowski , 2008 ) . 
Moreover , increased activation of the Empathy Network and vmPFC during the reception of health information may facilitate effective use of that health information ( for instance , Falk & Bassett , 2017 ) . 
These psychological processes contribute to information and self‐management behaviors ( Tompson et al. , 2015 ) , including the tendency to share information ( Falk , Morelli , Welborn , Dambacher , & Lieberman , 2013 ) . 
The Analytic Network is comprised of lateral parietal and lateral prefrontal cortices ( Duncan & Owen , 2000 ; Shulman et al. , 1997 ; Figure 1 ) . 
These regions have also been referred to as the Task Positive Network ( TPN ) , and overlap both the Dorsal Attention Network and the Fronto‐Parietal Control Network ( which are adjacent to and highly interconnected with each other ) . 
For reasons outlined elsewhere , we reject the alternative labels as misleading and refer to these regions as the Analytic Network ( Friedman & Jack , 2018 ; Jack et al. , 2013 ; Jack , Dawson , & Norr , 2013 ; Boyatzis et al. , 2014 ; Friedman et al. , 2015 ; Jack et al. , 2016 ) . 
The Analytic Network is activated by nonsocial reasoning , executive function , and inhibitory control ( for instance , overriding impulses ) , as well as logical , mathematical and scientific reasoning ( Corbetta et al. , 1998 ; Duncan & Owen , 2000 ; Goel , 2007 ; Jack , Dawson , Begany , et al. , 2013 ) . 
This network is commonly called the TPN ( Fox et al. , 2005 ) and is implicated in the comprehension and use of fact focused information , as well as health behavior change ( Berkman & Falk , 2013 ; Whelan et al. , 2017 ) . 
There are important reasons why the psychological functions served by the Analytic Network are also highly relevant to health information behavior . 
First , these psychological processes help individuals devise task‐oriented plans related to their health ( for instance , counting/tracking calories and sodium ) , understand the cause–effect relationships of their behaviors and their health , and comprehend often‐complex biological explanation , or planning and executing a search for information . 
Understanding information is a prerequisite for effectively using and sharing it . 
Moreover , because the Analytic Network is unrelated to social cognitive processes ( Jack , Dawson , Begany , et al. , 2013 ; Van Overwalle , 2010 ) , it may be more relevant for ( nonsocial ) information seeking and information use—as opposed to the more social aspect of information sharing . 
We were motivated to simultaneously assess activity in the DMN ( Empathy Network & vmPFC ) and the Analytic Network because they share an antagonistic or anticorrelated relationship ( Bressler & Menon , 2010 ; Fox et al. , 2005 ; Uddin , Clare Kelly , Biswal , Xavier Castellanos , & Milham , 2009 ) . 
That is , as one network becomes more active , the other becomes less active and vice versa ( Meyer , Spunt , Berkman , Taylor , & Lieberman , 2012 ) . 
For example , emotionally engaging tasks activate the Empathy Network and simultaneously deactivate the Analytic Network ; in contrast , scientific reasoning tasks activate the Analytic Network and simultaneously deactivate the Empathy Network ( Jack , Dawson , Begany , et al. , 2013 ) . 
However , these networks also have an antagonistic relationship in the absence of any task , when individuals are at rest and engaged in spontaneous cognition ( Fox et al. , 2005 ) . 
Higher anticorrelation between these networks is associated with higher IQ , better mental health , and better task performance ( Anticevic et al. , 2012 ; Buckner , Andrews‐Hanna , & Schacter , 2008 ; Whitfield‐Gabrieli & Ford , 2012 ) . 
To date , we are not aware of any studies that simultaneously measure and compare the function of both networks in order to investigate how the distinct types of neural processing of health information relate to health information seeking , sharing , and use behaviors . 
However , given that both networks appear relevant to health information processing , evidence suggests that comparing measures from both brain networks will be informative about the key drivers of health information behavior . 
In the present study we investigated patterns of neural activation in relation to self‐reported health information behaviors , with a focus on the tendency for neural differentiation between one type of health information that generally engages the network in question , and another type of health information that generally disengages that region . 
This investigation was a substudy utilizing baseline data from the Mindfulness Attitude to Deliver Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension ( MAD‐DASH ) study , a randomized controlled , 9‐month trial investigating the effects of a mindfulness intervention to improve blood pressure and self‐management behaviors in African Americans with prehypertension . 
We used a descriptive , cross‐sectional design to explore associations between baseline functional magnetic resonance imaging ( fMRI ) neural activation and information behavior survey data . 
Institutional Review Board approval was obtained prior to conducting this work . 
Participants in this study were African Americans with modestly elevated blood pressure . 
We focused on African Americans given the well‐established public health burden of hypertension in this community , and thus the importance of supporting self‐management‐related information behaviors in this group . 
Participants were primarily recruited using bus advertisements in Cleveland , Ohio . 
Eligible participants ( in the parent trial ) : ( a ) self‐identified as African American/Black , ( b ) were 21+ years of age , ( c ) had resting systolic blood pressure ( SBP ) 120–139 and/or diastolic blood pressure ( DBP ) 80–89 mmHg per the Joint National Committee on Prevention , Detection , Evaluation , and Treatment of High Blood Pressure JNC‐8 criteria for prehypertension ( James et al. , 2014 ) , or ( d ) had resting SBP > 140 , but had never been diagnosed with hypertension . 
Individuals were excluded if they : ( a ) were diagnosed with hypertension or taking antihypertensive medication , ( b ) used glucocorticoids ( within 6 months ) , ( c ) had adrenal insufficiency , ( d ) planned to move during the next 9 months , ( e ) scored < 20 on the Montreal Cognitive Assessment , ( f ) received counseling ( 3+ times/week ) , or ( g ) practiced yoga/meditation . 
Participants who could not undergo fMRI were excluded—those having heart pacemakers or defibrillators , metal anywhere in their body , implanted devices , or those who were pregnant . 
Of those who were assessed for eligibility , 66 % were unable to enroll in the study ( 62 % did not meet inclusion criteria ; 4 % refused ) . 
Candidates who did not meet criteria for inclusion were thanked for their time and provided with a $ 10 incentive . 
The sample consisted of 19 participants : 53 % women , 53 % attended or completed college or technical training , 58 % had monthly incomes between $ 600– $ 999 , and 63 % were single . 
The mean age of the sample was 52.47 years ( SD = 14.02 ) , with ages ranging from 24–76 years . 
Participants ' mean SBP was 134.17 mmHg ( SD = 13.15 ) and mean DBP was 81.26 mmHg ( SD = 4.32 ) . 
Individuals interested in participating were invited to the Clinical Research Unit for screening . 
Potential participants completed the Montreal Cognitive Assessment , a screening assessment used to identify cognitive impairment ( Nasreddine et al. , 2005 ) and had their blood pressure measured . 
A trained research nurse measured each participant 's blood pressure using an automated sphygmomanometer after 10 minutes of sitting with feet flat on the floor ( Chobanian et al. , 2003 ) . 
Three measurements were taken and averaged . 
Participants with excessively elevated blood pressures were encouraged to follow up with their healthcare provider . 
Individuals with blood pressure levels that did not meet inclusion criteria ( n = 6 ) , were not enrolled in the study and provided with a $ 10 incentive for participating in screening . 
Eligible participants completed two visits . 
During the first visit , health information behavior was assessed ( surveys , see Information Behavior Measures , below ) . 
Participants received $ 30 incentive for completing the first visit . 
Participants who returned for a second visit to undergo fMRI received an additional $ 20 incentive . 
We designed a paradigm to examine brain activity while participants attended to distinct types of health information . 
There were two conditions of relevance to the current investigation , each of which consisted of carefully selected video clips ( with sound ) downloaded from the Internet . 
The videos were selected based on the following categories : Animations depicting anatomy and physiological processes of health and disease ( for instance , mechanisms underlying heart function , insulin sensitivity , and how HIV affects the immune system ) . 
Affected individuals or their family members describing emotionally salient aspects associated with overcoming and managing their chronic illness ( for instance , individuals recalling the success of beating cancer , having a heart attack , their memory of contracting HIV ) . 
These content categories were selected , by hypothesis , to elicit unique patterns of activation and deactivation in the Analytic Network vs. the Empathy Network and vmPFC—which were modeled directly on previous paradigms.11 True activations and deactivations – true in the sense that they activate and deactivate relative to a resting baseline – would necessitate that Empathy Network regions were always above .00001 % signal change for the coping stories conditions and always below ‐.00001 % for the Fact focused stories ( and vice versa for Analytic Network regions ) . 
However , this is not always the case . 
The FF condition was expected to activate the Analytic Network and deactivate both the Empathy Network and vmPFC , whereas the CS condition was expected to activate both the Empathy Network and vmPFC and deactivate the Analytic Network . 
We focused on three prespecified measures of theoretical interest . 
Differential activation in the Analytic Network ( activity for FF condition minus activity for CS condition ) was used because it was hypothesized it would index analytic processing of health information . 
Differential activation in the Empathy Network ( activity for CS condition minus activity for FF condition ) was used because it was hypothesized this would index empathic processing of health information . 
Differential activation in the vmPFC ( activity for CS condition minus activity for FF condition ) was used because it was hypothesized this would index strength of processing associated with a sense of affective meaning in response to health information . 
Three a priori regions of interest were identified from previously conducted studies.22 Network regions . 
The Empathy Network regions , in Taliarch space , include 0 , 45 , 26 ( 39 voxels ) and –2 , –55 , 31 ( 139 voxels ) . 
The Analytic Network regions include –39 , 32 , 20 ( 20 voxels ) , –39 , –48 , 42 ( 36 voxels ) and –52 , –39 . 
42 ( 28 voxels ) . 
Two regions of the Empathy Network and three regions of the Analytic Network were derived from prior imaging data ( Jack , Dawson , Begany , et al. , 2013 ) , which identified the core parts of the two networks demonstrating the greatest task differentiation . 
The Analytic Network regions correspond to those voxels ( the 3D pixels that comprise the smallest spatial unit of data ) that met the highest statistical threshold ( random effects strict cognitive conjunction ) 33 Strict cognitive conjunction is the most statistically valid way to make inferences about brain regions which behave similarly , across different contrasts . 
as being reliably activated during analytic processing and deactivated during empathic processing . 
Empathy Network regions were defined in the same way except it was activated during empathic processing and deactivated during analytic processing . 
Both of these regions comprised voxels taken from two distinct parts of the Analytic and Empathy Networks . 
The signal from each of these a priori regions was averaged together within networks , meaning that the three Analytic Network regions constitute a single “ analytic measure ” and the two Empathy Network regions constitute a single “ empathic measure ” ( see Analysis , below ) . 
The third region of interest , the vmPFC , was identified based on its key role in behavior change and information sharing ( Falk et al. , 2011 ; Falk , Berkman , Mann , Harrison , & Lieberman , 2010 ; Falk , O'Donnell , & Lieberman , 2012 ; Vezich , Falk , & Lieberman , 2015 ; Whelan et al. , 2017 ) . 
By contrasting these conditions ( CS minus FF ) , we identified a whole brain‐corrected statistically significant group of face‐connected voxels.44 Face connected voxels are those which are connected to each other by at least one face , or side of their 3d cube . 
This region of peak differentiation between FF and CS conditions overlapped regions identified in the prior cited studies . 
Imaging data were acquired with a Siemens 3T Skyra scanner at the Case Center for Imaging Research . 
Participants first underwent a T1‐weighted magnetization‐prepared rapid‐acquisition gradient‐echo structural sequence ( MP‐RAGE ) , followed by four T2*‐weighted functional task runs ( 230 volumes each ) . 
Functional runs used an echoplanar imaging ( EPI ) sequence with 36 contiguous slices 3.5 mm slices , 3.5 X 3.5 mm in‐plane resolution , echo time ( TE ) = 20 ms , flip angle = 90° , repetition time ( TR ) = 2.00 sec . 
Stimuli were presented using Eprime software , version 2.0.10 ( Sharpsburg , PA ) . 
Videos were projected onto a screen attached to the MRI head coil using an Avotech projector and were viewed by subjects through a mirror . 
Sound was presented through integrated Avotech headphones . 
An integrated microphone allowed for two‐way communication . 
Each of the four functional runs lasted 7 minutes and 40 seconds ( 230 volumes ) . 
Over the entire scanning session of four runs , there were 16 videos per condition . 
Each video was downloaded from open‐source channels on Youtube.com . 
We edited in Microsoft Movie Maker ( Redmond , WA ) to be exactly 23,000 ms in length . 
Interspersed between the videos was a “ rest ” condition where participants passively viewed a picture of a red fixation cross on a black background . 
The rest condition was equal in frequency and length to the three video conditions ( 23 sec ) . 
Variable fixation periods ( jitters ) were displayed for 1–5 seconds after each video ( as well as after the rest periods ) . 
The length of jitters between conditions , and the order of the three experimental conditions and resting control condition , were pseudorandomized in MatLab ( MathWorks , Natick , MA ) prior to designing the study in Eprime . 
