Virtual health communities are online “ places ” where individuals can read and post messages or , alternatively , respond to messages posted by other members of the group . 
Virtual health communities are so named because they are not limited geographically or physically . 
These online spaces shape social relationships via the Internet by means of a series of social interactions that exist only online among people who share a common interest or problem . 
Two key factors for participating in such communities are seeking or offering experiential information and social support ( Erfani , Abedin , & Blount , 2016 ; Giles & Newbold , 2013 ; Reinke & Solheim , 2015 , Rubenstein , 2015 ; Vayreda & Antaki , 2009 ; Walther & Boyd , 2002 ; Zhang , 2016 ) . 
Hence , the community 's significance as a source for varied information and the nature of the social interaction between the members of the community that foster a sense of community shape the notion of these virtual spaces as “ weak ties ” ( Adelman , Parks , & Albrecht , 1987 ) . 
Granovetter ( 1973 , p. 1361 ) describes the strength of a tie “ as the combination of the amount of time , the emotional intensity , the intimacy ( mutual confiding ) and the reciprocal services which characterize the tie. ” Weak ties , then , are relationships formed with individuals outside our immediate social network . 
Granovetter ( 1973 ) stated that information transmitted through weak ties can contribute a more varied accessed to information and that “ individuals with few weak ties will be deprived of information from distant parts of the social system and will be confined to the provincial news and views of their close friends ” ( p. 202 ) . 
Weak ties often provide support during times of crisis when strong ties are disrupted , such as death of a family member , divorce , or long‐term illnesses ( Adelman et al. , 1987 ) ; hence , they have been used in prior studies to explain health information‐seeking behavior ( Morey , 1999 ) . 
Adelman et al . 
( 1987 ) further asserted that weak ties are limited by three dimensions : their dyadic features , that is , “ the interaction of weak ties is usually restricted to fewer topics and a narrow range of resources ” ( p. 130 ) , their relationship to other sectors of an individual social network , and their temporal context . 
The relationship among members of a virtual community can be defined as weak ties because these relationships exist mostly in the context of their online interactions taking place at a virtual site ; and in most cases members do not know each other personally and the intimacy and the reciprocal services exchange between members are limited to the needs surrounding the shared issue or problem . 
In recent years , the Internet has become one of the most popular sources for retrieving health information ( Bronstein , 2014 ; Coulson , Buchanan , & Aubeeluck , 2007 ; Liang & Scammon , 2011 ; Wright & Bell , 2003 ) . 
According to a survey conducted by the Pew Research institute in the United States in April 2014 using phone , email , and Internet surveys , 70 % of respondents testified that they are interested in health and medications more than any of the other topics ( politics , religion , sports , business , science , and technology ) presented to them . 
More than one‐third ( 37 % ) of all responders via the Internet stated that health is one of the most interesting topics for them and that they frequently search for health information online ( Kennedy & Funk , 2015 ) . 
Another survey conducted in September 2012 among 3,014 adults in the United States found that 18 % of all Internet users reported going online to find others who suffer from similar medical conditions ( Fox , 2013 ) . 
This is especially true of the population of chronically ill users . 
In fact , over 50 % of the chronically ill population in the United States , as of 2012 , was active in managing blogs and discussions in virtual health communities ( Fox , 2013 ) . 
This study examined the nature of these online relationships at a particular online space : a virtual health community for Crohn 's disease and ulcerative colitis users . 
Crohn 's disease is a chronic inflammatory incurable condition that damages the lining of the digestive tract , especially the intestines , and affects the everyday life of the people suffering from the illness . 
( Mazzoni & Cicognani , 2014 ; Newman & Siminovitch , 2003 ) . 
Inflammation pierces the layers of the lining of the intestine and tends to lead to symptoms such as stomachaches , diarrhea , fever , weakness , bowel obstructions , and fistulas ( an irregular joining between intestine loops or intestine loops and other bodily tissues ) . 
The disease affects children and teenagers in ~15 % to 30 % of cases ( Newman & Siminovitch , 2003 ) . 
Existing treatments seek to reduce the severity symptoms and minimize the need for surgery . 
In light of the fact that the majority of Crohn 's patients are diagnosed early in their lives and cope with the disease for many years and often endure hospitalizations and surgeries , the following questions arises : What are the specific information needs of these patients , and what role can virtual health communities play in fulfilling these needs ? 
How these virtual health communities facilitate or contribute to the management of chronic diseases such as Crohn 's disease and ulcerative colitis ? 
The rationale for this study is based on the fact that the majority of studies examining the interaction on virtual communities and online discussion groups considered groups dealing with severe diseases , such as cancer ( Høybye , Johansen , & Tjørnhøj‐Thomsen , 2005 ; Parrish & Cornelious , 2015 ; Sullivan , 2003 ) , AIDS ( Guo & Goh , 2014 ; Murphy , 1999 ; Sontag , 1990 ) , or mental diseases , such as schizophrenia , depression , and anxiety ( Bronstein , 2014 ; Giles & Newbold , 2013 ; Haker , Lauber , & Rössler , 2005 ; Kummervold et al. , 2001 ; Reinke & Solheim , 2015 ) , but not with chronic , nonlife‐threatening physical conditions . 
Hence , the purpose of the current study is to examine the activity of virtual health communities for users with a chronic disease that affects their daily lives ( for instance , Crohn 's ) , by understanding the role that these online spaces play as sources for information and social support and focusing on the nature of weak ties . 
Virtual health communities may constitute a significant source for retrieving medical information and support , especially for chronically ill users . 
Various studies have emphasized the advantages of such communities : ( a ) availability of information allows users who live in remote areas or are confined to their homes to receive social support without the need to drive long distances , as required in face‐to‐face support groups ( Guo & Goh , 2014 ; Kummervold et al. , 2001 ) ; ( b ) access to virtual health communities minimizes socioeconomic differences , because it does not entail any costs other than those associated with Internet use ( Sullivan , 2003 ) ; ( c ) virtual communities allow their members to disclose personal medical information while reducing the fear of rejection . 
Participation in these communities can be either anonymous or with controlled/partial disclosure . 
The facilitation of partial or full concealment of their identity gives users the courage to disclose information they might not feel comfortable disclosing in person and then to express their complaints , examine ideas and identities , ask questions , and discuss behaviors they prefer others not to know about ( Barak , Boniel‐Nissim , & Suler , 2008 ; Bronstein , 2014 ; Haker et al. , 2005 ; Kummervold et al. , 2001 ; Wright & Bell , 2003 ) ; ( d ) information offered in virtual communities is based on users ' personal experiences with symptoms , treatments , and daily coping habits at work and school , and this becomes relevant for other members of the community who suffer from similar conditions ( Bronstein , 2014 ; Coulson et al. , 2007 ; Mazzoni & Cicognani , 2014 ) ; ( e ) virtual communities are a way of reducing feelings of loneliness and creating social interactions with individuals who suffer from a stigmatized medical condition and avoid seeking information or asking for help outside of the virtual communities so they can hide their symptoms and present an appearance of normalcy ( Bronstein , 2014 ; Guo & Goh , 2014 ; Kummervold et al. , 2001 ; Parrish & Cornelious , 2015 ; Wright & Bell , 2003 ) . 
A number of studies have examined the role that these communities play in the lives of users who deal with both physical and mental diseases , and their caretakers . 
As noted earlier , a number of researchers have published studies regarding the role of these communities among cancer users ( Ginossar , 2008 ; Høybye et al. , 2005 ; Parrish & Cornelious , 2015 ; Sullivan , 2003 ) , those who suffer from mental or developmental disorders ( Giles & Newbold , 2013 ; Haker et al. , 2005 ; Kummervold et al. , 2001 ) , as well as mothers of children who have been diagnosed on the autistic spectrum ( Reinke & Solheim , 2015 ) . 
“ Weak Ties Network Theory ” examines the importance of interpersonal relationships in information distribution processes . 
This theory maintains that weak ties relationship networks ( which exist between acquaintances ) are much more significant than strong tie relationship networks ( which exist between friends or relatives ) , because our friends or relatives tend to circulate in the same social circles as us , and thus the information they have to share is to a large extent the same as we encounter . 
On the other hand , our acquaintances do not tend to circulate in the same social circles as us and , therefore , the information they receive tends to be more original and diversified , making them a significant information source ( Granovetter , 1973 , 1983 ) . 
Adelman et al . 
( 1987 ) stated that the distinctive features of weak ties result in four different functions they play in the social support process : ( a ) extending access to information , goods , and services , ( b ) promoting social comparison with dissimilar others , ( c ) facilitating low‐risk discussion of high risk topics , and ( d ) fostering a sense of community . 
This framework served as basis for the analysis of the data . 
Studies examining the activities of virtual health communities have noticed several elements reflecting Weak Ties Networks Theory : ( a ) Virtual communities are characterized by giving access to various aspects of a subject and providing diversified information , which is not always available from more intimate relationships . 
The environment created in virtual communities tends to be more expansive and versatile than the environment created in the framework of strong ties relationships ( Coulson et al. , 2007 ; Finn , 1999 ; Mazzoni & Cicognani , 2014 ; Wright & Bell , 2003 ) . 
( b ) Participating in virtual communities may lead to a feeling of self‐empowerment and may occur as a result of the process of sharing . 
Writing grants emotional relief and a sense of cognitive order derived from others accepting ( and being grateful for ) necessary information , interpersonal interactions , creating relationships , and , finally , accumulating self‐confidence , which leads to better decision‐making ( Barak et al. , 2008 ; Bronstein , 2014 ; Høybye et al. , 2005 ; Lin & Huang , 2013 ) . 
( c ) Writing in virtual communities promises the participants control over their self‐disclosure , may assist users in exploring their emotions and fears , and gain a sense of empowerment and control over their lives ( Barak et al. , 2008 ; Bronstein , 2014 ; Hoybye et al. , 2005 ) . 
Direct access to information sources allows users to gain a broad perspective of a certain medical condition ( symptoms , treatment options , caregivers , and hospitals ) , which is not always possible during a visit to a doctor . 
Weak ties can also convey negative elements because they may expose users to unreliable or even harmful information and because users interact solely through the group , it can be difficult to create and maintain long‐term relationships ( Barak et al. , 2008 ) . 
This study used a qualitative research method . 
In‐depth interviews were conducted with the members of the virtual health community in Israel dealing with Crohn 's disease and ulcerative colitis . 
Access to the group was granted because one of the researchers suffers from the disease and she is a member of the group . 
First , permission to access the information on the Facebook group was given by the administrator . 
After the researcher was granted permission to approach the group , the interviewees were recruited by posting an invitation for the group members to participate in the study . 
The researchers took great care in protecting the participants ' anonymity by following Baez 's ( 2002 ) and Kaiser 's ( 2009 ) recommendations for protecting confidentiality in qualitative research . 
These recommendations are based on the principle of “ beneficence ” defined in the Belmont Report that emphasizes that researchers must not harm their study participants by assuring their confidentiality and protecting their privacy . 
The anonymity of participants was upheld by removing all identifiers to create a “ clean ” dataset that did not contain information that could identify respondents , such as a name or address or specific details about their work or their personal life that could lead others to recognize them . 
For the purpose of questioning the users and conducting the interviews , a sample of 23 ulcerative colitis and Crohn 's patients ( 15 women and 8 men ) was selected . 
All participants were registered community members ; their ages ranged mainly between 20 and 40 years who answered the researcher 's invitation to participate in the study . 
The research field is a virtual health community designated solely for young and adult Crohn 's patients that contains about 1,875 registered members . 
The community is closed in the sense that only members have access to the posts published in it . 
The community allows limited disclosure between its members so that all registered members are known by their first or family names only to other members of the community . 
That is , members see only limited information on each other 's pages ; to get full access to another member 's profile the member needs to be accepted as a friend . 
Members in this group are mostly online acquaintances that are connected by their illness and their need for information and empathy ; the communication between the members mostly occurs online and therefore they can be considered a weak tie . 
The areas of the community 's interests are : quality of life , nutrition , daily coping with the disease , and complementary treatments . 
The members of the community are allowed to share and consult in these areas , recommend treatments that helped them and/or their caregivers , share experiences , and enjoy humorous experiences . 
The primary rules of the community are acceptance and mutual respect , without discriminating based on race , religion , sex , or political opinions ( “ Live at peace with Crohn 's and colitis ” : a closed health community for registered members only ) . 
The main purpose of an in‐depth interview is to understand the individual 's experience and the meaning s/he attributes to it ( Creswell , 2015 ) . 
The interview makes accessible the cultural context of one 's behavior and provides researchers a way to understand the meaning of such behavior ( Fontana & Frey , 2000 ; Seidman , 1991 ) . 
As this study aimed to learn from the experiences , feelings , and reasons behind a user 's participation in this online space , the researchers believed that in‐depth interviews allowed them to reach a deeper understanding and receive a broader picture of the phenomenon under study . 
Content analysis is a method of analyzing written communication messages ( Cole , 1988 ) . 
The method provides valid and replicable conclusions from existing data to provide knowledge , new insights , representation of facts , and a practical guide for action . 
The purpose is to achieve a collective and broad description of the phenomenon that is accomplished by constructing categories describing the phenomenon ( Elo & Kyngäs , 2008 ; Krippendorff , 1980 ) . 
Data analysis was done deductively by looking for elements of “ Weak Ties Networks ” theory . 
Deductive content analysis is based on previous work , such as theories , models , and literature reviews . 
The content analysis included a review of information to examine its compatibility with the primary developed categories ( Elo & Kyngäs , 2008 ; Kyngäs & Vanhanen , 1999 ) . 
Primary categories were developed following analysis of 10 % of the data . 
Based on the advanced categories developed , two researchers performed a reassessment of the data twice more , until it was clear that no new categories were detected . 
The percentage of the agreement between the researchers regarding additional categories was 90 % , indicating that the classification of categories was reliable . 
This section presents the findings from the study according to the framework proposed by Adelman et al . 
( 1987 ) regarding the four functions of weak ties as sources of information and social support . 
The proposed category scheme is explained and summarized in Table 1 . 
Weak ties represent a wide network of social connections that represent a diverse and unique set of informal information sources that can provide the individual with experiential information and social support that is not always found in strong ties ( Adelman et al. , 1987 ) . 
Many participants emphasized that upon their preliminary diagnosis , they were not given all of the required information by their attending physician , and thus felt the need to independently search for information on the Internet . 
Here are a number of examples : “ After the diagnosis , I began searching and reading materials regarding the disease online , examining the causes for the disease , the side effects of the disease , ways of coping , medicines and treatments , nutrition , and anything that can help cure or calm the disease . 
As known , this disease is characterized by times of flare ups and remissions . 
I must add that before becoming ill , I was not aware of the existence of such a disease and was very quickly exposed to the vast materials online regarding the disease . 
While searching for information regarding the disease , I found the virtual health community. ” “ After the diagnosis , I began searching and reading materials regarding the disease online , examining the causes for the disease , the side effects of the disease , ways of coping , medicines and treatments , nutrition , and anything that can help cure or calm the disease . 
As known , this disease is characterized by times of flare ups and remissions . 
I must add that before becoming ill , I was not aware of the existence of such a disease and was very quickly exposed to the vast materials online regarding the disease . 
While searching for information regarding the disease , I found the virtual health community. ” One of the participants emphasized that she was able to diagnose herself based on her participation in the virtual health community : “ I joined the community briefly before being diagnosed , in order to receive support and information , and understand if I have the disease and whether my symptoms match those of Crohn 's disease . 
What really helped me understand that I have Crohn 's disease even before the official diagnosis of the tests , is having symptoms that I did not know matched Crohn 's ( such as eye inflammations and arthritis ) , by reading about these symptoms there , I realized that I almost certainly have Crohn 's . 
Later on , after acquiring enough information regarding the disease , I wanted to share others with my knowledge and experience with the disease and give support to others. ” “ I joined the community briefly before being diagnosed , in order to receive support and information , and understand if I have the disease and whether my symptoms match those of Crohn 's disease . 
What really helped me understand that I have Crohn 's disease even before the official diagnosis of the tests , is having symptoms that I did not know matched Crohn 's ( such as eye inflammations and arthritis ) , by reading about these symptoms there , I realized that I almost certainly have Crohn 's . 
Later on , after acquiring enough information regarding the disease , I wanted to share others with my knowledge and experience with the disease and give support to others. ” Findings showed that direct access to relevant information sources through the virtual community often leads to self‐empowerment of users . 
Members of the community turn to virtual communities in search of information related to their disease in the belief that having such information will give them a good understanding of what they are facing . 
Direct access to information sources allows them to get a broad picture of their condition that can not always be achieved by a single visit to the doctor . 
Users of the Crohn 's virtual community described their sense of self‐empowerment : “ I read a thread about cannabis treatment and then I thought about trying this treatment myself . 
Now I 'm waiting for the approval of the Ministry of Health . 
Had I not been exposed to this information in the virtual community , I would have never thought about this possibility myself. ” “ I got a prescription for ‘ Pentasa ’ ( mesalamine ) by my GI doctor , and the community members informed me that ‘ Pentasa ’ is n't suitable for Crohn 's patients , only for colitis patients , so I decided not to take it and return to my GI doctor . 
“ I read a thread about cannabis treatment and then I thought about trying this treatment myself . 
Now I 'm waiting for the approval of the Ministry of Health . 
Had I not been exposed to this information in the virtual community , I would have never thought about this possibility myself. ” “ I got a prescription for ‘ Pentasa ’ ( mesalamine ) by my GI doctor , and the community members informed me that ‘ Pentasa ’ is n't suitable for Crohn 's patients , only for colitis patients , so I decided not to take it and return to my GI doctor . 
Availability and accessibility of information posted at the virtual health community constitutes another reason for joining , and represents one of the characteristics of “ Weak Ties Networks ” because these communities function as a source of support for its members when face‐ to‐face communication is unavailable . 
Characteristic of online communications in general , virtual health communities remove obstacles related to time and distance . 
Many participants noted that the virtual health community is available at any time , including weekends and nights , whereas the availability of doctors is limited . 
Usually a patient sees the attending physician once every 2 or 3 months , whereas the communication with the members of the virtual community can be daily . 
Further , patients who experience a seizure and have difficulty leaving their homes can use the community and receive advice on how to handle a seizure . 
The response in the community is usually swift and often provides the necessary information and support . 
Two examples follow : “ Sometimes the answers are given quickly and solve issues so that I do n't have to wait and discuss them with the doctor , since the answers are elaborated and are provided almost instantly. ” “ With regard to the doctors , they are not always available . 
Even when I am in a flare‐up I see the gastro one every month or two . 
In addition , I feel as though doctors and nurses are not giving satisfactory explanations regarding required medicine and examinations and many times I complete the lacking information via forums. ” “ Sometimes the answers are given quickly and solve issues so that I do n't have to wait and discuss them with the doctor , since the answers are elaborated and are provided almost instantly. ” “ With regard to the doctors , they are not always available . 
Even when I am in a flare‐up I see the gastro one every month or two . 
In addition , I feel as though doctors and nurses are not giving satisfactory explanations regarding required medicine and examinations and many times I complete the lacking information via forums. ” When trying to understand the members ' experience , the study examined the role that the virtual community played as an information source . 
In the majority of the interviews , findings from the content analysis show that that there is a certain preference of the virtual health community over family members and friends . 
The lack of ( emotional ) understanding of their situation by strong ties was revealed as a common theme among participants who stated that only people suffering from the disease such as themselves are able to understand what they are going through . 
As some participants stated : “ Relatives and family are not familiar with Crohn 's disease as other members of the virtual community . 
Also , it 's easier to share information with people who are experiencing a similar situation than with friends and relatives. ” “ Family and relatives are not an option for me , none of them really understand what I 'm going through and I do n't feel comfortable talking to them . 
Also , as I mention earlier , it is very embarrassing to talk about Crohn 's disease and usually I get frustrated from trying to talk with my family or friends. ” “ Relatives and family are not familiar with Crohn 's disease as other members of the virtual community . 
Also , it 's easier to share information with people who are experiencing a similar situation than with friends and relatives. ” “ Family and relatives are not an option for me , none of them really understand what I 'm going through and I do n't feel comfortable talking to them . 
Also , as I mention earlier , it is very embarrassing to talk about Crohn 's disease and usually I get frustrated from trying to talk with my family or friends. ” Adelman et al . 
( 1987 ) discuss the role that social comparison plays in the creation and evaluation of the individual 's perceptions against the background of other situations and experiences . 
This is where the strength of weak ties lies because they open “ a world of distinctive perspectives and reference points ” ( Adelman et al. , 1987 , p. 134 ) . 
A weak tie is created when a person forms a social connection with someone who is not part of his/her close social circle , oftentimes someone with a different background like a priest , a barber , or a neighbor who might become a significant source of information precisely because they belong to a different social sphere . 
This strength is especially salient in online health communities because they are not limited by geographical or physical boundaries , their members are people from all walks of life who share a common health challenge , and they can provide the needed point of comparison and experiential information others can not provide . 
Virtual health communities are an important source of experiential information ; a number of participants stated that the benefit of other 's experiences is priceless . 
Often , users are interested in the side effects of medications and treatments , as well as opinions of experts in medicine and treatments used by various medical institutions . 
The opinions and reviews of the members of the virtual health community often assist other users before they undergo the same procedures or receive the same medication . 
As the interactions between users is without prior acquaintance , they can be considered “ weak ties. ” Below are some examples : “ Community members have better experience in coping with the disease since they are ill themselves and there are many issues that the doctors do not understand because they are not experiencing what Crohn 's and colitis patients go through on their flesh with regard to coping with the problem beyond the medication treatment. ” “ The fact that individuals live with the disease for a long time and are willing to share their knowledge and experience , appeals to me . 
I am aware that the information is not professional but it is accessible and opens the minds to different trains of thought. ” “ Community members have better experience in coping with the disease since they are ill themselves and there are many issues that the doctors do not understand because they are not experiencing what Crohn 's and colitis patients go through on their flesh with regard to coping with the problem beyond the medication treatment. ” “ The fact that individuals live with the disease for a long time and are willing to share their knowledge and experience , appeals to me . 
I am aware that the information is not professional but it is accessible and opens the minds to different trains of thought. ” Findings from the content analysis show that participants believed that comparing their medical condition to that of other users in the virtual health community benefits them personally . 
It helps them put their situation “ into proportion ” and to draw optimism and motivation from other users ' success in having a good quality of life . 
“ I hate to say this , but sometimes ( especially when I am ill and in pain ) , reading what other individuals go through gives me proportion and the wake‐up call I need in order to get back to my reality and stop feeling sorry for myself. ” “ In the emotional aspect , it helps me to hear more complex stories than mine . 
