The individuals who write in the community are mostly in a much , much , much worse condition than mine . 
It helps me to know how far this disease can develop and it encourages me to treat my disease as much as possible and not neglect it , even though I mostly feel fine. ” “ I hate to say this , but sometimes ( especially when I am ill and in pain ) , reading what other individuals go through gives me proportion and the wake‐up call I need in order to get back to my reality and stop feeling sorry for myself. ” “ In the emotional aspect , it helps me to hear more complex stories than mine . 
The individuals who write in the community are mostly in a much , much , much worse condition than mine . 
It helps me to know how far this disease can develop and it encourages me to treat my disease as much as possible and not neglect it , even though I mostly feel fine. ” Weak ties are bounded relationships by their role in the individual 's information environment , their lack of connection to the rest of the individual 's social networks , and by their restrictive temporal and physical contexts ( Adelman et al. , 1987 ) . 
The limited disclosure of the virtual community allows members to discuss difficult , sometimes even embarrassing , issues dealing with their illness and the stigma attached to it . 
Goffman ( 1963 ) identified stigma as the situation of the individual who is disqualified from full social acceptance and in health contexts it refers to “ the sense of shame , disgrace or taboo associated with a particular illness/condition , usually stemming from fears and prejudice surrounding cultural conceptions of a health issue ” ( Wright & Bell , 2003 , p. 42 ) . 
The community is a place for users to consult one another , share their problems , and receive a sympathetic ear . 
Mutual concern for their health condition , and the fact that they all experience the same difficulties , drives members to reveal personal information , especially because it is a closed group ( meaning posts published in it are not disclosed to nonmembers ) . 
Disclosing personal information is characteristic of “ Weak Ties Networks. ” In these networks , users know only what other users choose to reveal about themselves . 
When individuals have an opportunity to protect or conceal their identity within the community , they feel less vulnerable when disclosing personal information . 
For example : “ I disclose personal information in the community and it is an excellent way to consult with the community members on the many relevant topics of the disease . 
It is strengthening to know that we are all in the same boat and can provide each other with advice from experience. ” “ Since the community is closed , I disclose details of bloodwork , CT results and other examinations . 
It helped me to better understand the results of the examination from experienced individuals. ” “ I disclose personal information in the community and it is an excellent way to consult with the community members on the many relevant topics of the disease . 
It is strengthening to know that we are all in the same boat and can provide each other with advice from experience. ” “ Since the community is closed , I disclose details of bloodwork , CT results and other examinations . 
It helped me to better understand the results of the examination from experienced individuals. ” Findings from the content analysis show that the possibility to partially conceal their identity facilitates self‐disclosure . 
Many participants claim that the information disclosed in the virtual health community should stay within the community and they are not interested to have this information reach their families , friends , or acquaintances . 
Furthermore , because the community is a closed community on Facebook , users fear that if the community becomes completely open , personal medical information could reach many on Facebook who are not necessarily close to them . 
For instance , employers , educational institutions , and other organizations in their lives that may affect the users ' ability to work , attend school , as well as their daily life . 
Examples : “ My questions in the community concern personal details about the disease which I share with my doctors and with members of the community for the purpose of consultation . 
I would not disclose details if the community was open since I am not interested for my family or friends on Facebook to be disclosed to my medical condition in detail. ” “ No chance . 
Among others , since I am not a person who likes public disclosure and I am comfortable with the anonymity which is more or less observed in the group . 
I would not want individuals working with me or family members to know of my coping and of other personal details about me . 
If the community was open , I would not be a member in it. ” “ My questions in the community concern personal details about the disease which I share with my doctors and with members of the community for the purpose of consultation . 
I would not disclose details if the community was open since I am not interested for my family or friends on Facebook to be disclosed to my medical condition in detail. ” “ No chance . 
Among others , since I am not a person who likes public disclosure and I am comfortable with the anonymity which is more or less observed in the group . 
I would not want individuals working with me or family members to know of my coping and of other personal details about me . 
If the community was open , I would not be a member in it. ” One of the participants expressed his struggle between the desire to keep a limited disclosure and the need to increase his chances of receiving help by having more individuals exposed to the post he published . 
This was his response : “ I do not have a conclusive response . 
I think that with time I will feel less fear of disclosing and sharing things about myself . 
The world is headed there — especially social networks which are turning all of us into one ‘ big brother. ’ On one hand , it is more convenient to disclose personal information among individuals who you share something in common with . 
They are more understanding and interested . 
It is just a more comfortable feeling . 
On the other hand , a wider disclosure can be more effective because there is no telling who reads your posts and maybe that person can help you one way or the other . 
On the third ( ! 
) hand , too much disclosure can damage and hurt you ( work , relationship , privacy , etc . 
) . 
” “ I do not have a conclusive response . 
I think that with time I will feel less fear of disclosing and sharing things about myself . 
The world is headed there — especially social networks which are turning all of us into one ‘ big brother. ’ On one hand , it is more convenient to disclose personal information among individuals who you share something in common with . 
They are more understanding and interested . 
It is just a more comfortable feeling . 
On the other hand , a wider disclosure can be more effective because there is no telling who reads your posts and maybe that person can help you one way or the other . 
On the third ( ! 
) hand , too much disclosure can damage and hurt you ( work , relationship , privacy , etc . 
) . 
” “ Several of the characteristics of weak ties combine to reduce the individual 's concern with saving face when disclosing risky or negative information ” ( Adelman et al. , 1987 , p. 135 ) . 
Content analysis showed that limited self‐disclosure in the virtual health community of Crohn 's patients served as a protective mechanism from social stigma . 
A number of participants spoke of feelings of “ embarrassment ” and “ shame ” regarding Crohn 's disease . 
Some participants pointed out that it is considered “ unacceptable ” to discuss such topics in general society . 
Others noted a concern about being rejected because of their condition and even creating a sense of disgust . 
In other words , the fact that the community for Crohn 's users is closed to nonmembers allows users to openly discuss their condition , including details of symptoms they experience and their ways of coping , without the concern of social stigma or labeling . 
“ I would not want individuals who are not ill to be exposed to the details and content that I write , they are unable to understand things properly and may misinterpret it . 
Moreover , the content is at times a topic that is unacceptable for discussion in society. ” “ This disease can be very embarrassing . 
It is unlike other chronic diseases such as diabetes . 
For instance , there is diarrhea , lack of control of bowel movements , etc . 
— maybe the most embarrassing things that can happen to a person. ” “ I would not want individuals who are not ill to be exposed to the details and content that I write , they are unable to understand things properly and may misinterpret it . 
Moreover , the content is at times a topic that is unacceptable for discussion in society. ” “ This disease can be very embarrassing . 
It is unlike other chronic diseases such as diabetes . 
For instance , there is diarrhea , lack of control of bowel movements , etc . 
— maybe the most embarrassing things that can happen to a person. ” Adelman et al . 
( 1987 ) asserted that for most people a sense of community is a perception of a safer and simpler time . 
Weak ties foster a sense of community because they connect people from different backgrounds and stimulate collective action . 
In virtual health communities , this collective action is reflected in information and social support . 
Online communication has altered the way people communicate . 
The findings from this study revealed that the need to be part of a community whose members suffer from the same medical condition constitutes another essential reason for joining a virtual health community and characterizes weak ties formed online , that is , in a virtual community weak ties are an important source of not only information but also social support . 
Mutual concern for their health is the heart of the community and it creates a sense of belonging among members , who are not personally acquainted with one another . 
Many participants emphasized that simply having the same medical condition permits them to understand and express genuine empathy toward one another even though they are not personally acquainted with one another . 
This empathy is not extended to family members and friends who do not suffer from Crohn 's disease : “ A desire to meet more individuals with my condition , receive support and feel that I am not alone with the disease . 
The disease is very isolating and leads to a desire to close oneself up . 
The community makes me feel like I am part of a group. ” “ The main reasons I signed up for the CC patients ' community are first and foremost to feel like I belong . 
Belonging to a group of users such as me , who go through the same things , who can understand me so that I know that I am not alone in the struggle. ” “ A desire to meet more individuals with my condition , receive support and feel that I am not alone with the disease . 
The disease is very isolating and leads to a desire to close oneself up . 
The community makes me feel like I am part of a group. ” “ The main reasons I signed up for the CC patients ' community are first and foremost to feel like I belong . 
Belonging to a group of users such as me , who go through the same things , who can understand me so that I know that I am not alone in the struggle . 
Virtual health communities have changed how people regard and share information . 
By examining interactions between the members of the virtual health community for ulcerative colitis and Crohn 's patients , the current study revealed the different roles that weak ties have for chronically ill patients . 
Drawing from Adelman et al . 
's ( 1987 ) four functions framework , the findings show that virtual health communities function as a network of weak ties by serving as a source of continual access to a varied network of information based on the experiences of other members suffering from the same illness . 
This virtual network represents a significant advantage for ulcerative colitis and Crohn 's patients , some of whom are unable to leave their homes during periods of flare‐ups . 
Moreover , participants noted that their questions or comments were answered in a relatively short time , which helps them deal with the stress and anxiety brought about by the uncertainty regarding their condition . 
This finding supports prior studies regarding the availability and accessibility of information on virtual health communities ( Coulson et al. , 2007 ; Finn , 1999 ; Haker et al. , 2005 ; Rodriquez , 2013 ) . 
The findings also show that information was revealed as an empowering tool that help them make informed decisions about their treatment , fostering their initiative and independence based on the information they found in the virtual community . 
Parallel to these findings , Høybye et al . 
( 2005 , p. 214 ) noted that members of a virtual community for breast cancer described their sense of self‐empowerment : “ I feel that through the direct access I got re‐control over my body because I know everything about the diagnosis , treatment possibilities and risks. ” Virtual health communities are built and maintained by users from all walks of life who share a common issue or problem but otherwise might lead very different lives . 
The social connection with dissimilar others provides access to varied opinions and views based on the personal experiences supplementing the information received from healthcare providers about everyday issues and fears regarding their illness , thus reducing anxiety and uncertainty ( Wright & Bell , 2003 ) . 
This need for experiential knowledge is related to Adelman et al . 
's ( 1987 ) second function in which people form weak social connections to compare their situation with others experiencing a similar situation or challenge . 
The findings show that participants perceived this experiential knowledge as invaluable information that has a positive impact on how they cope with the disease , which allows them to find solidarity with other members who suffer from similar symptoms and concerns ( Bronstein , 2014 ; Coulson et al. , 2007 ; Mazzoni & Cicognani , 2014 ) . 
Weak ties represent a less risky outlet for the disclosure of high‐risk information ( Wright & Rains , 2013 ) . 
Supporting Adelman et al . 
's ( 1987 ) third function , past studies have shown that virtual health communities help members deal with stigmatized health conditions by providing a less judgmental and more objective venue to find information and acquire coping strategies ( Wright & Bell , 2003 ; Wright & Rains , 2013 ) that facilitates the full or partial concealment of their identities and the disclosure of personal information ( Wright , Rains , & Banas , 2010 ) . 
Participants in this study stated that if the community was an open one , they would not have joined , because they do not wish family members , friends , acquaintances , or employers to be exposed to the information they share with other members , echoing prior research ( Barak et al. , 2008 ; Bronstein , 2014 ; Chen , 2012 ; Haker et al. , 2005 ; Kummervold et al. , 2001 ; Wright & Bell , 2003 ; Wright & Rains , 2013 ) . 
As reported by Smith ( 2007 ) and Parrish and Cornelious ( 2015 ) , participants felt that the stigma attached to some of the symptoms of their illness lead to social isolation and rejection . 
Paralleling Adelman et al . 
's ( 1987 ) fourth function of weak ties about the need to foster a sense of community , the findings show that participants joined the community looking to meet others suffering from the same condition , to receive support and empathy , and feel they are not alone with the disease , which can be very isolating at times . 
The community gives them a feeling that they are part of a group of people who face similar challenges and endure experiences that are distinct from their healthy family members and friends , who are not always able to understand them . 
Social connections , a sense of belonging , and the need for empathy have been shown in prior studies to be significant reasons for continuing participation in an online community ( Erfani et al. , 2016 ; Lin & Huang , 2013 ) and that social support in its various formats functions as information that positively impacted members ' actions and helped them make sense of their illness ( Rubenstein , 2012 , 2015 ) . 
The research implications of this study rely on the need to further the understanding of the nature of this new type of virtual social connections and the role they could play in health management contexts . 
What kind of benefits can virtual communities provide to their members as an alternative source for health information , social support , and empathy ? 
This study emphasizes the social role of information when invaluable experiential information is available at all times and delivered through a caring and empathic environment . 
That is , members have access to other people 's unique experiences on a delicate health matter that were delivered in a timely and caring manner from people with whom they can identify and communicate without the fear of judgment or rejection , allowing them to cope with the health challenges they face with their illness . 
There are a number of limitations to the study . 
First , as in any other qualitative study , the sample of people interviewed was limited and it included only members who wished to participate in the study , that is , the findings present a self‐reported perception of the participants ' reality . 
Second , the population of the study included only adults who are information‐literate and have a Facebook page . 
Children aged younger than 18 who are members of the group were not interviewed . 
Fourth , because this was a partially closed Facebook group where members could be identified through their Facebook pages , the information disclosure could have been different than the possible disclosure in an open online forum , where the identity of the members is concealed by anonymity . 
It is important for future research to understand how these two sides of information , the informational and the social , are interwoven to form the unique type of information that can only be found on these online spaces that are shared by strangers who shared a common challenge . 
This study aimed to understand what are the specific information needs of patients suffering from ulcerative colitis and Crohn 's disease and how virtual health communities can fulfill these needs . 
Virtual health communities have become a vital communication and information channel for users that allows sharing diverse information and experiential knowledge . 
The study showed that the interactions between members of the community can be characterized as weak ties . 
Before the Internet , weak ties relationships existed primarily between neighbors , service providers , and others to whom a person could turn in a time of need , when strong ties relationships were not available or did not provide appropriate support . 
These online spaces have created a new type of virtual social relationship based on shared experiences and the need for information and social support and empathy . 
Virtual health communities significantly broadened the number of weak ties relationships , which function as support systems for individuals with medical conditions . 
These sites provide diversified and readily available information based on the experiences of individuals dealing with similar challenges and facilitates sharing information about issues that are perceived as being embarrassing or have social stigma . 
They are thus becoming an invaluable tool in managing chronic disease that is particularly important when dealing with a stigmatized and isolating illness that , unlike other diseases , such as cancer , do not receive the same understanding and support from society . 
