To view the national impact of international collaboration , Wagner and Jonkers ( 2017 ) assigned articles and impact measures to countries using fractional counting and a field‐weighted citation index ( FWCI ) , as defined by the Scopus team at Elsevier ( Plume & Kamalski , 2014 ) . 
They found “ a clear correlation between a nation 's scientific influence and the links it fosters with foreign researchers. ” ( p. 32 ) . 
The authors show that public R & D funding is only weakly correlated with the citation impact of a nation 's articles . 
To reach this conclusion , the authors created an index of openness with values assigned for OECD countries . 
The data are available for download at go.nature.com/2fzrnt3 . 
The Comment in Nature remains at the level of pairwise correlations . 
In our opinion , these data allow for a next step : the effects of government funding and international collaborations on citation impact can be tested using regression analysis . 
Has international collaboration in the meantime become an independent factor in the self‐organization of the sciences ( Persson , Glänzel , & Danell , 2004 ; Wagner & Leydesdorff , 2005 ; Wagner , Whetsell , Baas , & Jonkers , 2018 ) ? 
Or is domestic stimulation by national governments a more crucial factor ? 
It has been argued that the sciences are self‐organizing , and thus relatively resilient against changes in external funding priorities by governments ( van den Daele & Weingart , 1975 ) . 
To test the hypothesis further , we scaled up to a decade of data ( 2003–2013 ) using the funding data ( Government Budget Allocations for R & D GBARD ) 11 We follow Wagner and Jonkers ( 2017 ) and use GBARD ( OECD , 2017 , p. 2 ; cf . 
Luwel , 2004 , p. 327 ) , and not Gross Expenditure in R & D ( GERD ) or Higher‐Education Expenditure in R & D ( HERD ) . 
GERD includes business funding ; with HERD , we would miss spending by government research institutes ( including the academies ) , which are important producers of publicly funded scientific knowledge . 
of 35 OECD member states and seven affiliated economies,22 These seven countries are : Argentina , China , Romania , the Russian Federation , Singapore , South Africa , and Taiwan . 
on the one side , and using our access to an in‐house version of the Web of Science ( WoS ) developed and maintained by the Max Planck Digital Library ( MPDL , Munich ) , on the other . 
As in the study of Wagner and Jonkers ( 2017 ) , we assume a delay of 2 years between funding and output and accordingly use OECD funding data for the period 2001–2011.33 Funding data were retrieved from the OECD online at http : //stats.oecd.org/Index.aspx ? 
DataSetCode=MSTI_PUB . 
Because we have a time‐series of observations , the publication year of the articles was added to the model as a third independent variable . 
FWCI is a relative measure , whereas our independent variables are numbers of articles and US $ normalized by the OECD as Purchasing Power Parity ( PPP ) . 
In order to avoid problems with this difference in the scale of the measurement , we use percentile classes of articles as dependent variables at 50 % , 10 % , and 1 % of the most frequently cited articles , normalized with reference to the corresponding subject categories in WoS and publication years ( see Table 1 ) . 
We added the number of papers for comparison . 
Only articles with the document type “ article ” are considered . 
In the case of ties in citation numbers at the respective thresholds , the countries ' articles are fractionally assigned to the percentile classes ( Waltman & Schreiber , 2013 ) . 
The resulting numbers were rounded off . 
Three independent variables are used : ( i ) The annual number of internationally coauthored articles for each country ; ( ii ) government budget allocations for R & D ( GBARD ) in the publication year y – 2 assuming expenditures to show output with a 2‐year lag ; ( iii ) the publication year of the articles . 
In other words , changes over time are controlled while studying the relative influences of government funding and international collaborations on citation impact . 
Although standardized by the Frascati Manual ( OECD , 1976 [ 1963 ] ) , however , the collection of input data by the OECD is decentralized in practice and therefore less reliable for comparisons among nations than WoS data ( Aksnes , Sivertsen , van Leeuwen , & Wendt , 2017 ) . 
The dependent variables are count variables concerned with over‐dispersion , so we perform negative binomial regression models ( Long & Freese , 2006 ) . 
The regression models are based on n = 417 observations of “ publication year x expenditure ( country ) ” combinations . 
The countries are considered between 1 and 12 times in the analyses ( on average , 11 times ) . 
The cluster option in Stata corrects the standard errors of the coefficients for the fact that we have more than 1 year for each country ( Hilbe , 2014 ) . 
We tested for multicollinearity of the independent variables , but found—according to the guidelines of Acock ( 2016 ) —scarcely any hint of a multicollinearity problem . 
The results of the models show that the coefficients for international collaboration and expenditure are close to zero ( see Table 2 ) . 
In order to interpret the results of the regression models , Table 3 shows average marginal effects . 
These effects are changes in the dependent variable when the independent variable is increased by one unit ( and the other independent variables are set to the mean value ) . 
The results can be interpreted as follows : on average , an increase of funding by one US $ million PPP decreases slightly the expected numbers in the 50 % , 10 % , and 1 % most‐highly cited articles by 0.18 , 0.05 , and 0.01 articles , respectively . 
The decrease for the number of articles is 0.17 . 
On average , the addition of one internationally coauthored article increases the expected numbers of articles in the 10 % and 1 % most‐highly cited articles by 0.2 and 0.02 , respectively . 
We confirm findings that international collaboration has a statistically significant and positive effect on the citation impact of nations . 
However , the effect is small . 
Government funding tends to have a negative or negligible effect on citation impact . 
However , our conclusions are “ on average : ” some nations appear to be more effective in turning funding into citation impact than others—several small nations punch above their weight in impact relative to spending ( Sandström & Van den Besselaar , 2018 ) . 
Our results suggest diminishing returns of investments : additional government funding seems not to be absorbed by authors and institutions who produce more highly cited articles . 
It may well be that the influence of government funding for some ( for instance , capital‐intensive ) domains is different from others . 
Another factor behind the weak correlations may be the noted decentralization in the collection of input data by the OECD ( Asknes et al. , 2017 ) . 
Leydesdorff and Wagner ( 2008 ) found large differences in the price ( in US $ ) per article among nations . 
Some countries may have more slack and bureaucracy in the organization of the sciences than others ( Taylor , 2016 ; cf . 
Shelton & Leydesdorff , 2012 ) . 
These various possible explanations can be the subject of further research . 
Policy towards R & D investment has been based on consensus that one needs more science to thrive in technology‐based growth ( for instance , Coccia , 2010 ; Grupp , 1995 ) . 
The underlying assumption has been that national agents are able to appropriate the benefits of national public spending . 
This research suggests that the links between funding and outputs are partly decoupled from a national base , especially at the international level ( Wagner , 2008 ) . 
This new configuration has implications for accounting for the benefits of public funding , which requires further research . 
