Our participants also play a key role in conveying and interpreting information in meaningful terms that account for individual learning needs . 
In summary , there is evidence of an important contribution to information need recognition , information sourcing , and information comprehension . 
In discussing our findings we return to our research questions . 
An important intervention role is evident with three interwoven contributions to information behaviors in disadvantaged and dependent circumstances , categorized as : information need recognition ; information sourcing ; information comprehension . 
Our participant 's report that mothers can be reluctant to reveal needs due to fear of negative consequences , can be unaware of needs due to background , and can suspend needs due to conflicting priorities . 
Situational and complex , there is evidence of unconscious needs ( Taylor , 1968 ) , dormant needs ( Cronin , 1981 ) , unmet physiological needs taking precedence over psychological needs ( Maslow , 1943 ) , self‐protective secrecy and deception ( Chatman , 1996 ) , and the person‐in‐progressive situations ( Dunne , 2002 ) . 
Intermediaries gradually overcome secrecy and deception via the building of trusting relationships , and through general reflective discussions exploring behaviors and common parenting issues , jointly uncovering gaps in understanding and identifying needs . 
One illustrative example was a session on sexual consent and unacceptable behaviors that uncovered several misunderstandings and included several disclosures of abuse , that in turn , identified needs relating to coping with and surviving abuse . 
Another was in relation to bonding and attachment , considered by the majority of participants to be a key need , but something that mothers could find difficult to understand and contextualize due to a lack of prior experience in their own childhoods ; and not something that they could always give their full attention to when occupied by immediate problems such as uninhabitable housing . 
In such situations the intermediary role extends beyond simplistic one‐way information provision to two‐way sensitive recognition and understanding of needs , the former relatively straightforward in comparison to the latter , that recognizes that needs are not always understood , revealed , prioritized , or acted upon , and may need to be returned to . 
In such circumstances , situational understanding informs personalized non‐judgmental and considered action that reduces risk of rejection . 
Previous studies discuss the importance of intermediary understanding of context of need ( Duncombe & Heeks , 2002 ; Schilderman , 2002 ) , and report issues concerning intermediary understanding of individual needs ( Gomez et al. , 2012 ; Sabelli , 2012 ) . 
Our findings provide depth of insight into the multifaceted complexity of needs , and the participatory and progressive manner in which intermediaries facilitate needs recognition . 
Findings also evidence the importance of recognizing the natural order of needs , and issues of receptiveness to other needs when fundamental basic needs ( for instance , shelter ) are unmet . 
Our participants report that many mothers do not actively seek information themselves due to a reluctance to ask questions , request advice or assistance , or engage with external groups or agencies , including health clinics , due to issues of self‐esteem and stigma , and literacy and practical access . 
There is evidence of aversion to risk‐taking ( Chatman , 1996 ) , passive information seeking ( Wilson , 1999 ) , seeking by proxy ( McKenzie , 2003 ) , and an intermediary bridging and linking role ( Putman , 2000 ; Woolcock & Narayan , 2000 ) . 
Our participants report that although many of the needs of mothers are beyond their primary expertise , they are nonetheless supported , as our participants believe from experience that many mothers would be unlikely to seek the information that they need without their support , particularly on sensitive topics and/or from external sources . 
Our participants describe actively directing mothers to “ safe ” and “ trusted ” sources , assisting with the navigation of complex and bureaucratic state health and welfare systems , “ handholding ” during interpersonal interactions with external agencies , and “ sensitively ” intervening via redirection to authoritative sources to address issues of misinformation . 
Our participants consider themselves “ vital ” to information access , with one describing themselves as “ probably their only link between getting information and not getting information. ” Previous studies have utilized the “ bridging ” metaphor to describe intermediaries ( Agada , 1999 ; Bailur , 2010 ; Duncombe & Heeks , 2002 ; Sabelli , 2012 ) . 
Our findings evidence an at times critical dependency on intermediaries when seeking information from external sources beyond immediate and predominantly insular interpersonal social networks , and provide insight into contributory affective factors . 
Our participants report that many mothers have difficulties understanding information due to learning difficulties , and issues of information overload and literacy ; issues often not revealed that require sensitive incremental and iterative approaches to resolve , and information tailored , interpreted , and applied in meaningful terms . 
There is evidence of self‐protective secrecy and deception , and situational relevance ( Chatman , 1996 ) , of enduring human preferences for interpersonal communication ( Case & Given , 2016 ) , and a need for constructive interventions that anticipate uncertainty and anxiety ( Kuhlthau , 2004 ) . 
Our participants discussed the importance of sharing information in meaningful and natural language via incremental “ drip drip ” cycles involving walkthroughs , visual demonstrations , and role modeling ; and cautioned against “ auto delivery ” and “ overwhelming volumes of text ” that would not be read . 
Cognizant to issues of overload , participants described gradually introducing topics via general reflective discussions of common everyday issues , and subtly integrating demonstrations into group activities and games that could be followed up individually . 
Individual approaches had to take into account that some mothers “ ca n't verbalize how they want to learn , ” and can be “ quite guarded ” and “ scared ” to admit issues of comprehension . 
Continuity of one‐to‐one relationship between intermediary and mother is considered key to building a trusting relationship that allows progress to be observed , questions and conversations to be repeated , and complex topics and issues to be revisited . 
Participants also discussed how some mothers , due to background , might never have experienced many of the things now required of them as mothers . 
In such circumstances role modeling was important , as they “ might … never [ have ] seen it being done before. ” Effective supporting texts were described as succinct , pictorial , and easy to read , with mothers encouraged to personalize them . 
Time is considered key to conveying information in meaningful terms , and recognizing issues of self‐esteem , it is considered important to provide positive experiences and feedback at every opportunity , as the intermediary might be “ the only person that 's managed to say … something positive. ” Previous studies have discussed the importance of meaningful information formats ( Duncombe & Heeks , 2002 ; Gomez et al. , 2012 ) , and the intermediary role in interpreting , distilling , and reframing information ( Durrance et al. , 2006 ) . 
Our findings evidence issues of comprehension , and provide insight into constructive information intermediary behaviors , and in particular , the incremental and recursive nature of information cycles , and the personalized nature of meaningful information formats . 
Our findings evidence an important intermediary role pivotal to progressive constructive information behaviors in disadvantaged and dependent circumstances , which can be distilled into three propositional statements to explain relationships between key concepts , and provide parameters for a theory of information intermediary intervention to guide ongoing examination : In situations of multiple needs , information intermediaries facilitate information needs recognition , and considered purposeful action , that takes account of the problematic context . 
In situations of insular existence , information intermediaries are a key source of information in themselves , and a key integrative connection to other external sources not otherwise accessed . 
In situations of poor comprehension , information intermediaries tailor and personalize information for relevance , and communicate via incremental and recursive cycles that take into account individual learning needs . 
The above statements help conceptualize the intermediary role in relation to general models of information behavior ( that is , being variously pivotal to information needs recognition , information sourcing , and information comprehension in disadvantaged and dependent circumstances ) ; and help conceptualize theoretical relationships between information poverty and social capital , and in particular , shared concepts of social integration ( that is , access , participation , and engagement ) and the information intermediary bridging and linking role within . 
It is beyond the practical limits of this article to discuss shared social integration aspects in depth , but a metamodel is proposed ( see Figure 1 ) , influenced by soft systems thinking ( for a concise overview of soft systems thinking , see Checkland & Poulter , 2006 ) , which encourages a holistic perspective of complex purposeful human activity in problematical social situations ( with many interpretations of any declared “ purpose ” possible ; and in problematic situations , multiple interacting perceptions of reality , and multiple worldviews , possible ) . 
Soft systems thinking also recognizes that people attempt to act purposefully in environments subject to individual situational constraints ( understood as sociological , psychological , economic ) that determine individual environment ( system ) boundaries , and in our context , the information sources accessible or accessed by the person . 
At the core of the model are problematic situations and needs , which when recognized initiate purposeful intermediary supported information processes , depicted as arrows . 
Recognition and understanding of information needs can require incremental and recursive cycles of intermediary intervention . 
Information processes and flow are two‐way , and while depicted as linear , will often be cyclical at the subprocess level within . 
General models of information behavior ( for instance , Savolainen , 1995 ; Wilson , 1999 ) could be “ nested ” within arrows to explain subprocesses and sociopsychological factors and relationships , as could our propositional statements ( that is , recognition , sourcing , and comprehension ) . 
Problematic situations and associated needs , which initiate processes , can be loosely or tightly coupled ( that is , new or sequential ) . 
Person and intermediary are denoted as figures , information sources as circle objects , and the environment boundary as a dotted line ( with arrows illustrating potential inward/outward directions of boundary movement ) . 
Beyond the boundary is the broader unaccessed world including unaccessed information sources . 
Viewed as a series of progressive integrative information‐seeking processes , information intermediaries assist the person with information needs recognition , information sourcing , and information comprehension , which progressively expands person knowledge , and via intermediary bridging and linking efforts to new information sources , progressively expands person ( system ) boundaries both physical and digital , and their social networks . 
Highly situational micro‐transitions within could , as one participant discussed , “ take a week , but for others it could be five years. ” It is also important to note that , in practice , cycles might not always be progressive , and that boundaries might remain unchanged , or even contract . 
For example , our participants discussed several instances of mothers being reluctant to attend health clinics and withdrawing from support groups due to issues of stigma ; and in other instances intermediary bridging and linking efforts might only establish temporary connections . 
However , the purposeful intention of the intermediary is nonetheless evidenced from our findings . 
The model is thus important for not only making the fluid system boundary of the person explicit , but also the expansive and integrative intermediary role within . 
We report from the underrepresented perspective of the intermediary , and while drawing on the insightful cumulative experience of 49 professionals , we nonetheless report one side of a relationship , and reserve exploring young mother perspectives of the intermediary role for future research , including in relation to other sources of information and support . 
The applicability of our findings to disadvantaged and vulnerable populations more broadly is also an important area for further research . 
Evidence of dependent relationships also raises important research questions regarding the development of self‐efficacy ( that is , information literacy ) in disadvantaged populations , and the role of noninformation professionals engaged in everyday support roles . 
Our participants , as information intermediaries , provide support to disadvantaged and dependent young mothers with multiple , interrelated , and at times competing information needs , not always understood or revealed , and often within sensitive situations . 
Via trusting nonjudgmental relationships built over time , our intermediaries play a key role in recognizing , understanding , and progressing information needs in the problematic context . 
Extending beyond parenting to individual issues of poverty and personal development , many information needs are beyond their primary expertise , but are nonetheless supported , as many mothers would be unlikely to seek the information that they need without intermediary support , particularly from formal external sources , due to issues of self‐esteem and stigma , literacy , and practical access . 
Consequently , beyond being a key source of information in themselves , intermediaries play a key integrative role in connecting mothers to other information sources both physical and digital . 
Our intermediaries also play a key role in conveying and interpreting information in meaningful terms that account for individual learning needs , with information shared via incremental and recursive cycles involving walkthroughs and demonstrations . 
Three propositional statements provide parameters for a theory of information intermediary intervention to guide future examination of this important role , positioning information intermediaries as variously pivotal to information needs recognition , information sourcing , and information comprehension in situations of problematic needs , insular existence , and poor comprehension . 
A metamodel conceptualizes important theoretical relationships between information behavior and social capital , and in particular shared concepts of social integration , and the progressive and integrative information intermediary role within the fluid system environment of disadvantaged and dependent people in problematic situations . 
Beyond empirical and theoretical contributions , our findings have significant practical implications for public health policy and in particular digital health strategies , as they evidence an important human intermediary role among an at‐risk group . 
In an era of digital transitions , our findings suggest that digital can not be viewed as a primary form of information dissemination , and that holistic interpersonal approaches remain important . 
In relation , there are implications for information intermediary training and support , particularly beyond information professions . 
Our three propositional statements identify a core set of desirable competencies for future professional skills development programs . 
