One participant commented that once attending a support group mothers could still be uncomfortable “ bridging from a bespoke group to a wider group , ” and that this was important , as for many mothers such groups could be their main or sole point of contact and socialization with other mothers . 
Stigma was considered a significant contributory factor . 
For example , one participant commented that many mothers attending antenatal classes or support groups felt “ judged because maybe they 're a young parent , maybe because they 're a single parent ” and that these feelings extended to recreational activities and traveling by public transport . 
Another recalled a midwife having told one mother “ that was a bit silly having a child at your age , ” and then asking “ what are you doing this for , is this so you can get a house ? 
” Low literacy , both reading and information , are considered significant issues . 
Participants felt that low literacy discouraged many mothers from seeking information themselves , and limited their access to and use of key information commonly distributed via websites , books , and leaflets . 
Low literacy could also limit participation in support groups . 
For example , one participant commented : Things like Triple P [ Positive Parenting Program ] work for particular … people … who like reading about things or coming along to things … if your literacy is not good then how are you going to do the homework that lots of parenting classes ask ? 
Things like Triple P [ Positive Parenting Program ] work for particular … people … who like reading about things or coming along to things … if your literacy is not good then how are you going to do the homework that lots of parenting classes ask ? 
Another commented : …they may not be able to read your leaflet , [ as a ] high percentage of parents … living in Glasgow have … very poor literacy . 
So we could hand them all the leaflets in the world [ without effect ] … so the thing about bounce and rhyme … and interventions like that , they are about … demonstration . 
…they may not be able to read your leaflet , [ as a ] high percentage of parents … living in Glasgow have … very poor literacy . 
So we could hand them all the leaflets in the world [ without effect ] … so the thing about bounce and rhyme … and interventions like that , they are about … demonstration . 
Participants discussed difficulties in identifying literacy issues , for although some mothers could be very open about reading difficulties , others , as one participant commented , could be “ scared ” to reveal such issues . 
Literacy issues also had to be distinguished from language issues among mothers who spoke English as a second language . 
Information literacy is also a concern . 
For example , one participant described Google as “ dangerous , ” with mothers often seeking “ quick answers ” to health questions that “ makes them more anxious , ” and often not having the “ ability to differentiate from good and bad. ” Another commented , “ It 's important we give them the proper information because if not they see it on a website and think because it has been published it must be true. ” Another commented : Social media and the Internet can be great if you know what you are looking for , but things on Facebook which are run by other parents can be problematic … we knew of one … who was giving out advice on Facebook , that … had social work involvement.… But then you can see if you are a parent and you are feeling a bit isolated how you could quite easily get sucked into that , even if the information is pretty poor . 
Social media and the Internet can be great if you know what you are looking for , but things on Facebook which are run by other parents can be problematic … we knew of one … who was giving out advice on Facebook , that … had social work involvement.… But then you can see if you are a parent and you are feeling a bit isolated how you could quite easily get sucked into that , even if the information is pretty poor . 
Misinformation is an issue , and felt to be particularly problematic in the absence of a supportive relationship with a professional , with mothers often sourcing advice from family members rather than accessing external authoritative sources themselves . 
Participants often found advice from family and friends to be contradictory to current recommendations , requiring sensitive intervention . 
One participant commented : There 's a lot of family pressure.… I have [ had ] a debate [ with ] three different mums that their own mothers have told them there 's nothing wrong with baby walkers … [ and ] weaning … before six months.… . 
they know the [ correct ] advice because we 've spoken about this for lots of visits . 
But … I think they want … reassurance that what they 're saying to their mums is okay . 
There 's a lot of family pressure.… I have [ had ] a debate [ with ] three different mums that their own mothers have told them there 's nothing wrong with baby walkers … [ and ] weaning … before six months.… . 
they know the [ correct ] advice because we 've spoken about this for lots of visits . 
But … I think they want … reassurance that what they 're saying to their mums is okay . 
Independent online searches could also introduce misinformation , and lead to incorrect self‐diagnosis , described by one participant as “ increasingly common. ” Another commented , “ They are reading about it online and diagnosing their own kids as being autistic or having attention deficit disorder — this is a big problem ” ; and another , discussing the challenges associated with convincing a mother that they are wrong in situations of self‐diagnosis , that , “ It 's difficult to get through to them once they are convinced of it. ” Issues of information overload and inappropriate information formats that fail to take account of low literacy levels and individual learning needs were discussed . 
For example , one participant identified “ overwhelming volumes of text ” as an issue , another “ auto delivery of information. ” Another commented , There is a problem with information overload — sometimes the practitioner is just too focused on delivering the script — they do n't pause to break it down or try to make it understandable . 
There is a problem with information overload — sometimes the practitioner is just too focused on delivering the script — they do n't pause to break it down or try to make it understandable . 
In such circumstances , participants felt that assumptions of understanding could be incorrectly made , compounded by issues of concealment . 
For example , one participant commented that mothers would often not admit “ that they did not understand what they were told. ” In such circumstances individual interactions were important . 
For example , one participant discussed the need to be able to “ sensitively explore [ understanding ] one to one. ” Participants discussed how such individual responses could be difficult , if not impossible , within group settings . 
Upbringing can be an issue , affecting awareness of needs , and engagement with professionals . 
Participants discussed how the way in which mothers had themselves been parented/cared for could impact how they interacted with their own children , and that those with difficult and/or traumatic backgrounds might not be aware of different approaches to parenting , and would not seek such information , and/or find it hard to contextualize and put into practice ( for instance , attachment and bonding ) . 
Previous interactions in traumatic circumstances could also influence how receptive mothers are to intervention and advice . 
Institutional bureaucracy is an issue . 
Participants discussed how many mothers found essential state services such as welfare systems too complex to understand , and had problems understanding terminology and completing forms . 
Often possessing multiple complex needs difficult to articulate , mothers often found themselves being repeatedly signposted between multiple agencies . 
Participant assistance was often required , but not always successful . 
One commented : Sometimes you 've maybe took two or three hours out of your diary to do something with a young person … and by the end of that you 've still not actually achieved anything . 
So if that 's what it 's like for you , what 's it like for them ? 
Sometimes you 've maybe took two or three hours out of your diary to do something with a young person … and by the end of that you 've still not actually achieved anything . 
So if that 's what it 's like for you , what 's it like for them ? 
Instances of mothers being given incorrect or conflicting information while interacting with multiple agencies were recounted by several participants ; and a lack of continuity in who mothers interacted with ( for instance , multiple midwives ) was also considered a significant issue that could discourage effective interactions ( that is , discouraging mothers from asking questions where no relationship existed ) . 
Several participants recounted witnessing poor treatment of mothers when accompanying them to external appointments , with mothers often left feeling ignored or dismissed before they could access the help and information needed . 
One commented : I have went to places with young people . 
And I suppose I have a feeling around about how invisible they might be.… How differently people speak to them and they speak to me even if I 'm standing next to them . 
I have went to places with young people . 
And I suppose I have a feeling around about how invisible they might be.… How differently people speak to them and they speak to me even if I 'm standing next to them . 
Practical access issues related to transport and technology . 
Travel time and/or cost , accommodating infant routines , and difficulties traveling with prams on public transport could all discourage mothers from accessing support groups . 
Participants also discussed how many mothers did not possess a computer and that those who did often could not afford or were not eligible for home Internet ; and that while mobile phones were more common , usage is limited by prepaid credit . 
Participants discussed a number of factors that contributed to effective interactions , categorized as : continuous and trusting relationship ; tailored and personalized information ; and incremental cycles involving walkthrough , demonstration , and repetition . 
A recurrent theme was the importance of building a continuous trusting relationship , described as an often difficult and gradual process . 
Participants discussed how mothers could initially be resistant to professional involvement in their lives , one commenting that many mothers felt that professionals would “ try and catch them out ” or “ tell social work. ” Another commented that some mothers genuinely feared their “ child would be taken off them. ” Another discussed how during this period , when they often knew little of the individual , finding a personalized “ hook ” to gradually share information in meaningful terms could be difficult . 
Identifying those most in need of help could also be difficult ( with early intervention considered critical ) . 
Once a trusting relationship was established , mothers were generally more willing to share problems and ask for advice and assistance . 
For example , one participant commented , “ They are quite guarded … so they get to know you and they trust you and … speak to you about things , or tell you things that are going on. ” Trust was recognized as important to acceptance of information . 
One participant commented , “ If you build trust with them and you tell them that something is valuable … if they trust you then they 'll accept that and then maybe try it out. ” Another commented : I 've got to have trusting relationship … it 's a very intensive caring relationship , but a professional relationship . 
And there [ are ] maybe times … where you have to be quite direct … it could be something like … safe practice . 
So it could be … they 're putting the baby on their tummy in the moses basket … contrary to health advice . 
I 've got to have trusting relationship … it 's a very intensive caring relationship , but a professional relationship . 
And there [ are ] maybe times … where you have to be quite direct … it could be something like … safe practice . 
So it could be … they 're putting the baby on their tummy in the moses basket … contrary to health advice . 
Continuity of relationship provided time to convey information in meaningful terms , addressing issues of comprehension . 
One participant commented : In 10 minutes , they [ health visitors ] go through so many appointments . 
Rather than … saying , ‘ No , do n't wean until he 's six months ’ and then leaving , the worker that 's there all the time might say , ‘ How are you ? 
Oh , you 've started weaning ? 
Well , you know , you should n't really wean ‘ til six months . 
Here 's the reason why. ’ And it 's … because they 've got more time . 
And that 's what the girls are … saying , ‘ aye they did say that but they do n't tell us why . 
So I just fed him at four months . 
' Once you tell them what the research is saying that they could get allergies if you wean them too early , it 's like , ‘ All right , I did n't know that. ’ … it sticks in her head . 
In 10 minutes , they [ health visitors ] go through so many appointments . 
Rather than … saying , ‘ No , do n't wean until he 's six months ’ and then leaving , the worker that 's there all the time might say , ‘ How are you ? 
Oh , you 've started weaning ? 
Well , you know , you should n't really wean ‘ til six months . 
Here 's the reason why. ’ And it 's … because they 've got more time . 
And that 's what the girls are … saying , ‘ aye they did say that but they do n't tell us why . 
So I just fed him at four months . 
' Once you tell them what the research is saying that they could get allergies if you wean them too early , it 's like , ‘ All right , I did n't know that. ’ … it sticks in her head . 
Continuity of relationship allowed participants to observe progress , and whether mothers needed more or less individual support , with participants listening to and responding to individual needs over time , and gradually building up the mothers ' confidence and self‐efficacy . 
One commented : You hold that persons hand , support them and show them how to do it.… It might take two or three times for them to do it but eventually they will build up the confidence to … do it themselves . 
But the handholding is necessary … they do feel stigmatized , they go into places and do feel stigmatized by older parents ... . 
Whether that 's there or not , it 's in their head that they are being frowned upon cos they are a young parent . 
You hold that persons hand , support them and show them how to do it.… It might take two or three times for them to do it but eventually they will build up the confidence to … do it themselves . 
But the handholding is necessary … they do feel stigmatized , they go into places and do feel stigmatized by older parents ... . 
Whether that 's there or not , it 's in their head that they are being frowned upon cos they are a young parent . 
Ongoing relationships provided opportunity for regular positive feedback , and to build confidence and self‐esteem among mothers , particularly in isolated and/or difficult circumstances . 
One participant described themselves as “ the only person that 's managed to say some nugget of something positive in among it all. ” Another discussed the importance of “ positive experiences ” and “ meaningful , thoughtful interventions. ” Ongoing relationships also allowed participants to build positive relationships with partners and family members , and via wider acceptance of their support role , help reduce potential sources of misinformation . 
Tailored ( group ) and personalized ( individual ) information was considered key to supporting information and learning needs , and to ensuring understanding ; and considered difficult within the practical constraints of support groups , compounded by some mothers concealing needs and/or pretending to understand , described by one participant as “ reading but not understanding. ” Participants considered it important to make information resources accessible and meaningful , and to personalize delivery . 
Participants discussed the need for streamlining of printed resources , easy to read pictorial resources , and the use of demonstrative tools such as fetal dolls . 
One commented , “ Some … have literacy problems which compound the problems of information overload since they ca n't process the material they are given — we know they wo n't read big bits of literature. ” Several described utilizing visual aids and/or encouraging personalization of resources . 
One described using fetal dolls to show various stages of baby development ; another described reading through books and encouraging mothers to write in them and mark pages with post‐it notes to “ make it relevant and make it their book ” and to “ use it whatever way will be helpful. ” Participants considered it important to walkthrough information rather than simply distributing . 
One commented , “ I think there are some mums that would go through everything they are given , read everything , but that 's not the norm ” ; another , “ It 's about us using the material and actually sitting with the leaflet that we have in that day and actually using it with the baby … making it … relevant. ” Several described scenarios where they began by talking through common issues before explaining why particular information is important . 
For example , one commented : The program gives us an opportunity to really explore … behaviors and … looking after themselves as well as their baby . 
So , you know , when they 're stressed how … that will impact on the baby 's health … so we spent a lot of time … talking about cortisone and the impact of raised cortisone on a baby . 
The program gives us an opportunity to really explore … behaviors and … looking after themselves as well as their baby . 
So , you know , when they 're stressed how … that will impact on the baby 's health … so we spent a lot of time … talking about cortisone and the impact of raised cortisone on a baby . 
Participants discussed role modeling as an effective method of conveying information ( managing tantrums , playing and bonding , and so forth ) , and discussed how needs were individual . 
For example , one commented : The best way to get information across is role modeling — how can they do it if they have never seen it being done ? 
… some of them might have … no experience with babies , or there might be things about the way that they were parented that make it difficult — there is a massive difference between giving them a leaflet and showing them . 
With some families role modeling might … take a week , but for others it could be five years . 
The best way to get information across is role modeling — how can they do it if they have never seen it being done ? 
… some of them might have … no experience with babies , or there might be things about the way that they were parented that make it difficult — there is a massive difference between giving them a leaflet and showing them . 
With some families role modeling might … take a week , but for others it could be five years . 
Role modeling was often subtly integrated into activities and games , described by one participant as “ showing but… not showing. ” Participants also discussed utilizing other mothers as role models . 
For example , one commented : They listen to other young people…they see that other young people can progress… and have come through the same difficulties… and they know that there can be another option… for them . 
They listen to other young people…they see that other young people can progress… and have come through the same difficulties… and they know that there can be another option… for them . 
Demonstrations are considered effective methods of conveying information , with it important to ground demonstrations in the problematic context . 
For example , one participant discussed how information on nutrition was often supported by participatory cooking and tasting sessions focused on , “ affordable practical solutions. ” Repetition is important . 
One participant described conveying to mothers the health risks of smoking and substance abuse as “ a journey , ” and another as “ a constantly reinforced message ” requiring “ revisiting all the time ” ; another described role modeling as providing information by “ drip drip effect. ” A recurrent theme among participants was the importance of not automatically assuming understanding , and utilizing on‐going relationships to provide opportunities for questions to be repeated , complex topics to be revisited , and sensitive issues to be addressed at opportune times . 
For example , one participant commented : Every day we talk about something different , but having said that , a lot of my work is repetition — we are able to do that here because we have the time to repeat activities or conversations until we get the outcome… we want . 
Every day we talk about something different , but having said that , a lot of my work is repetition — we are able to do that here because we have the time to repeat activities or conversations until we get the outcome… we want . 
And another : If they are n't in the mood [ to talk ] … but say a month later they want to go back to it . 
…you revisit that . 
…it 's the therapeutic relationship . 
They know you . 
They know they can say to you… ‘ no I do n't want to talk about it ’ . 
We 've all been there . 
They have all said it 's the continuity [ that helps ] , a lot… will say during the antenatal period , ‘ no disrespect to the midwives… but I 'm seeing a different face all the time. ’ If they are n't in the mood [ to talk ] … but say a month later they want to go back to it . 
…you revisit that . 
…it 's the therapeutic relationship . 
They know you . 
They know they can say to you… ‘ no I do n't want to talk about it ’ . 
We 've all been there . 
They have all said it 's the continuity [ that helps ] , a lot… will say during the antenatal period , ‘ no disrespect to the midwives… but I 'm seeing a different face all the time. ’ Our participants provide support to disadvantaged and dependent young mothers with multiple , interrelated , and at times competing needs , not always apparent or revealed , and often within sensitive situations . 
Our participants play a key role in identifying , understanding , and progressing information needs in the problematic context . 
Our participants are a key source of information in themselves , and play a key role in providing , directing , and connecting mothers to other sources of information both physical and digital , and addressing issues of misinformation . 
Our participants believe that many mothers would be unlikely to seek the information that they need without their support , particularly from external sources beyond immediate social networks , largely due to issues of stigma . 
