Within information behavior , the intermediary role ( understood as people who act as information mediums or agents for others ) has long been associated with librarians and educators , but has grown to encompass other information professions , and the concept of lay intermediaries ( Abrahamson & Fisher , 2007 ) . 
However , although the intermediary is recognized as “ a vital component in information behavior ” ( Case & Given , 2016 , p. 362 ) , there are few empirical studies explicitly examining the role , particularly in disadvantaged circumstances , and from the broader perspective of professionals beyond information professions occupying community‐based support roles ( see Background , below ) . 
Such a perspective is important , as in disadvantaged circumstances a dependency on such individuals for information appears evident ( for instance , Buchanan & Tuckerman , 2016 ; Westbrook , 2009 ) , warranting further exploration . 
For the purposes of this study , we focused our attention on studies identifying an information intermediary role in disadvantaged circumstances . 
Given sociotechnological trends , contemporary studies that consider the intermediary role in both the physical and digital space , and interplays between , are also important . 
We discuss the most relevant below . 
Several studies have been undertaken in developing nations . 
Schilderman ( 2002 ) investigated the information needs of the urban poor in Peru , Zimbabwe , and Sri Lanka . 
Schilderman reports that “ people in low‐income urban settlements have a complex range of information needs , many… unsolved ” ( 2002 , p. 24 ) , that “ can not be targeted effectively with mass messages ” ( 2002 , p. 8 ) . 
Social networks are the primary information sources , with information conveyed largely via word of mouth . 
Reliability is a significant issue , compounded by a reluctance to interact with authoritative institutions due to issues of trust , and inappropriate formats and mediums of communication . 
Schilderman reports intermediaries ( for instance , Government , Health , NGO ) as having a key role , but being largely unsuccessful due to inadequate understanding of complex needs , and because dissemination “ relies too much on one‐way communication often via inefficient infomediaries and does not specifically target the poor ” ( 2002 , p. 47 ) . 
Duncombe and Heeks ( 2002 ) report similar findings from Botswana , reporting an important but largely ineffective intermediary role , with information shared informally via social networks that leave many needs unmet and “ perpetuating an insular existence ” ( 2002 , p. 65 ) . 
They argue that intermediaries can “ bridge the financial , socio‐cultural , and knowledge gaps ” ( 2002 , p. 71 ) , but to be more effective , need to : understand information needs ; provide information in personalized formats ; and extend the intermediary role beyond access to application of information . 
Sabelli ( 2012 ) undertook a study in Uruguay exploring the intermediary role of health , education , and social service professionals providing support to adolescent women in disadvantaged vulnerable situations . 
Participants are described as having multiple information needs not always recognized or expressed as such , and having “ little interest and ignorance about the existence of local resources and public services ” ( 2012 , p. 7 ) . 
Use of state and voluntary sector public access computing venues ( PACs ) providing Internet access is described as “ non‐existent ” ( 2012 , p. 8 ) . 
Intermediaries are reported to provide a key role in increasing awareness of information needs , and directing to information sources , and described as providing “ an essential bridge between young women and their appropriation of information and knowledge processes , both for their personal and collective development ” ( 2012 , p. 1 ) . 
Bailur ( 2010 ) , investigating PACs underutilization in India , reports that PACs are highly dependent on the personality , motivation , and ability of PAC staff as intermediaries , and their ability to establish trusting and inclusive environments . 
Bailur describes a “ critical role… [ that ] greatly influences… success or failure in bridging digital divides ” ( 2010 , p. 1 ) . 
Gomez , Fawcett , and Turner ( 2012 ) , in a similar study in Colombian PACs , provides further insight , reporting that “ Infomediaries play a critical role in understanding and meeting the information needs of the users ” ( 2012 , p. 118 ) , and describe three key intermediary functions : sharing information in accessible and meaningful formats ; helping users access information via basic training ; and fostering and building relationships through “ community development and empowerment of users to solve their problems and transform their realities ” ( 2012 , p. 129 ) . 
Highlighting the importance of empowerment , they describe effective intermediaries as those who know the difference between “ giving someone a fish , and teaching them to fish ” ( 2012 , p. 130 ) . 
Studies from developed nations report similar issues and remind us of enduring and transcendent human preferences for interpersonal communication . 
A study by Agada ( 1999 ) undertaken within a US African American inner city community of multiple deprivations reports that “ interpersonal sources were preferred over all other sources ” ( 1999 , p. 74 ) , with limited use of external sources due to issues of trust and credibility , compounded by information services not being “ tailored to meet some of the everyday survival needs among this population ” ( 1999 , p. 82 ) . 
Agada ( 1999 , p. 82 ) highlights intermediaries as having a key role to “ bridge the gap. ” Wathen and Roma ( 2005 ) investigated health information behaviors among women in rural Canada with limited access to health services . 
Although the majority had access to Government digital and telephone health services thought to assist with remote access , the authors report low usage . 
Participants demonstrated a preference for interpersonal face‐to‐face information sources , and utilized a wide range of local intermediaries , ranging from health professionals to , more commonly , allied and alternative healthcare providers , and family and friends . 
Such intermediaries are identified as having “ a key role… in the [ health ] information seeking process… [ providing ] context about the health issue in question , links to more formal sources such as books , etc. , and , importantly , validation , comfort and support. ” ( 2005 , p. 6 ) . 
Durrance , Walker , Souden , and Fisher ( 2006 ) , investigating everyday information behaviors in a community setting within a US city zone of multiple deprivations , reports that members of local community groups provide an important intermediary role “ critical to the information landscape of communities ” ( 2006 , p. 2 ) . 
In particular , they variously : collect and share information and links within and across groups ; “ routinely… interpret , distill , and re‐frame information ” to make it more relevant and accessible to constituents ( 2006 , p. 2 ) ; and prepare information for targeted dissemination and use . 
Durrance et al . 
report that community‐based intermediaries facilitate community problem solving because they are “ close to the problem , [ and ] …understand the needs associated with it ” ( 2006 , p. 12 ) . 
In summary , human intermediaries appear important to the meeting of information needs in disadvantaged circumstances , and appear to provide an important connection to external sources of information ( the “ bridge ” metaphor used by Agada , 1999 ; Duncombe & Heeks , 2002 ; Bailur , 2010 ; and Sabelli , 2012 ) . 
However , ineffective and/or ill‐defined intermediary practices are also reported , in particular related to intermediary understanding of information needs ( Agada , 1999 ; Duncombe & Heeks , 2002 ; Schilderman , 2002 ) , and effective methods of information dissemination and application ( Duncombe & Heeks , 2002 ; Schilderman , 2002 ) . 
With only five of the above studies involving intermediaries , and nonexclusively focused on the intermediary role ( and several with limited distinction between person and intermediary data ) , there is also limited empirical evidence from the intermediary perspective limiting our depth of insight and understanding of the role . 
There is also limited theoretical consideration of the intermediary role in relation to general theories and models of information behavior . 
Consequently , there would appear to have been limited progress since Bailur concluded , “ There appears to be insufficient research on these critical individuals ” ( 2010 , p. 1 ) . 
This raised two key research questions : In disadvantaged and dependent circumstances , what is the information intermediary role ? 
In relation , how might we conceptualize the information intermediary role ? 
A purposive approach to sampling defined key participant inclusion criteria as being a state or voluntary sector professional directly engaged in providing support to young mothers from areas of multiple deprivations ( for instance , employment , education , health , crime ) . 
Recognizing that participants might have a broad range of clients , it was made clear as part of invites that our focus was their interactions with disadvantaged mothers . 
Young mothers from areas of multiple deprivations can be considered disadvantaged and dependent . 
They are more likely to be single parents , to have experienced family conflict/trauma , not to be in employment or education , and at risk of short‐ and long‐term mental health issues ( Trivedi , Bunn , Graham , & Wentz , 2007 ) , infant mortality rates are higher than older women ( Torvie , Callegari , Schiff , & Debiec , 2015 ) , and babies at greater risk of poor nutrition and care ( Harron , Gilbert , Cromwell , Oddie , & van der Meulen , 2016 ) . 
Stress and anxiety are heightened , as are rates of depression ( Raskin , Easterbrooks , Lamoreau , Kotake , & Goldberg , 2016 ) . 
Low literacy is also reported ( for instance , Bennett , Frasso , Bellamy , Wortham , & Gross , 2013 ) . 
Notwithstanding such issues , motherhood can be a positive and transformative experience for young people ( Brand , Morrison , & Down , 2014 ; Duncan , 2007 ) ; however , young mothers are subject to significant negative attention and stigmatization . 
Shoveller and Johnson argue that public discourse on parenthood predominantly portrays young mothers as a societal problem , and encourages marginalization and “ a climate of sex‐based shame ” ( 2006 , p. 47 ) . 
They argue that public health interventions have been preoccupied with risk and “ what is wrong with the individual , ” as opposed to the environment , and that greater attention needs to be given to how to “ transform youths ' social contexts and structures ” ( 2006 , p. 56 ) . 
Brand et al . 
discuss how this “ deficit view of young motherhood ” ( 2014 , p. 174 ) can lead to mothers concealing needs from professionals due to “ fear of stigmatization and lack of confidence ” ( 2014 , p. 175 ) . 
Brand et al . 
report “ strong evidence of the interrelationship between a young mother 's support systems and experiencing a positive transition to motherhood ” ( 2014 , p. 177 ) , but that “ service models that offer the right type of support for young mothers are limited ” ( 2014 , p. 177 ) . 
They highlight the need for “ bottom‐up ” approaches to healthcare that foster meaningful relationships with young mothers and respond to individual needs . 
Such issues of marginalization and concealment reinforced the appropriateness of our theoretical framework bringing together theories of information poverty with theories of social capital to better understand shared concepts of social integration , understood as participation , access , and engagement . 
Chatman 's ( 1996 ) theoretical framework for describing an impoverished information state draws on insider/outsider theories from the social sciences to explore how insider/outsider identity influences behaviors . 
Chatman argues that “ Based on previous research , one can make a prima facie case that people who live in an arduous social landscape view outsiders with self‐protective eyes ” ( 1996 , p. 205 ) . 
Chatman ( 1996 ) proposes four concepts defining the basis of an impoverished information world : deception ( distortion of truth ) , risk‐taking ( aversion to risk ) , secrecy ( intentional concealment ) , and situational relevance ( immediate utility ) ; and six propositional statements , which describe an impoverished information state as one in which people variously perceive themselves to be devoid of sources of help , are influenced by outsiders who withhold privileged access to information , adopt self‐ protective behaviors in response to social norms , are mistrustful of the ability of others to provide useful information , withhold their true problems in the belief that negative consequences outweigh benefits , and selectively receive new information . 
Chatman reports that in impoverished circumstances , a stratification of information access occurs , with information needs and sources localized , and outside sources not usually sought in a “ world on which norms and mores define what is important and what is not ” ( 1996 , p. 205 ) . 
Such concepts drew our attention to the applicability of social capital theory . 
Widely recognized as a strong predictor of individual health and wellbeing , social capital refers to “ features of social life — networks , norms and trust — that enable participants to act together more effectively to pursue shared objectives ” ( Putnam , 2000 , p. 2 ) . 
Three types of social capital are commonly recognized ( Putman , 2000 ; Woolcock & Narayan , 2000 ) : bonding ( close , immediate peer and family connections ) ; bridging ( more distant connections with people of similar characteristics ) ; and linking ( institutional connections via people in authoritative positions ) . 
Recognizing that “ social capital can operate through the diffusion of information ” ( Drentea & Moren‐Cross , 2005 , p. 924 ) and that state and voluntary sector agencies “ can contribute to the building of social capital by promoting the types of interaction and integration which enable social networking and by providing citizenship information resources ” ( Goulding , 2004 , p. 4 ) ; a particular strength of incorporating a social capital perspective is that it “ shifts the focus of analysis from behavior of individual agents to the pattern of relations between agents , social units and institutions ” ( Schuller , Baron , & Field , 2000 , p. 35 ) . 
Semistructured interviews and focus groups were identified as appropriate data collection methods . 
Interviews ( 1 hour duration ) were semistructured around everyday information needs , seeking preferences and issues that participants observed and dealt with during interactions with mothers . 
It was not our intention to develop comprehensive typologies of needs and sources , but identifying helped provide context and structure to discussions that primarily sought to explore interactions between participants and mothers , and the intermediary role within . 
Two of the three research team members conducted interviews . 
Interview transcripts were recorded and transcribed in full . 
Focus groups ( four groups of 8–10 participants , 2 hours duration ) followed interviews and began with preliminary semistructured discussions , followed by open discussions . 
A participatory approach encouraged discussion and simplified data collection . 
Participants were asked to initially identify and note ( flipchart ) the various information needs , sources utilized , and issues experienced by young mothers ; and to then discuss what they themselves found difficult during information interactions with young mothers . 
Research team members ( all ) moderated groups with minimal intervention beyond instruction and prompts . 
Postgraduate students were recruited to note and transcribe discussions . 
Data analysis incorporated deductive and inductive elements , with data disaggregated into meaningful categories via identification of patterns and regularities through iterative pattern coding and thematic analysis ( utilizing NVivo ) . 
Initial start‐list codes were based on , but not limited to , Chatman 's ( 1996 ) concepts of information poverty ( for instance , deception , risk‐taking , secrecy , situational relevance ) , and concepts of social capital ( for instance , bonding , bridging , linking ; Putman , 2000 ; Woolcock , 2000 ) , reflective of the theoretical framework . 
Further codes were emergent from data , in particular those relating to intermediary interactions and influencing factors . 
Periodic code checking ( multiple sample coding ) was conducted by one team member independent of the first to validate developing code structures , with no notable variations found . 
Emergent themes were developed and refined iteratively including crosschecking ( all team members ) for coherence , consistence , and distinctiveness ( Braun & Clarke , 2006 ) . 
Narrative analysis was conducted to provide a sense of temporal sequence to intermediary interactions , and to shift attention from “ what happened ” to “ how people make sense of what happened ” ( Bryman , 2016 , p. 589 ) . 
Narrative analysis of transcripts sought to identify “ stories ” providing interconnections between information needs , contexts , and behaviors , and to gain insight into the intermediary sense of role within recalled events . 
Participants were not required to provide narratives , but it is recognized that this can naturally occur as “ people perceive their lives in terms of continuity and process ” ( Bryman , 2016 , p. 590 ) . 
Ethical approval was obtained via the Institutional Ethics Committee , with the study run in strict accordance with the University Code of Practice on Investigations of Human Beings . 
Informed written consent was obtained from all participants , who all participated voluntarily . 
Twenty‐two professional support workers were interviewed , and 36 participated in focus groups ( nine of the latter also interviewed , giving us 49 participants in total ) . 
Participants were family nurses , health visitors , social workers , and support group leaders , and represented eight state and voluntary sector organizations/units providing health and family support services , with five of eight working specifically with young mothers , and the remainder providing support for general population mothers encompassing young mothers . 
Although none exclusively supported disadvantaged mothers , such mothers were confirmed as large parts of all caseloads . 
The findings are presented reflecting the order of semistructured discussions that explored the needs that formed the basis of information interactions , the sources utilized , and issues dealt with . 
A further category , factors enabling information interactions , was emergent from discussions . 
The information needs identifiable from participants ' discussions were categorized as : pregnancy , baby care , finance , family relationships , education and employment , parent health , and housing . 
Two overarching themes emerged regarding multiplicity and recognition of needs . 
With regard to multiplicity , participants described multiple and conflicting needs among mothers , many related to poverty ( poverty described by one participant as one of the “ biggest issues ” ) . 
Participants routinely helped mothers with understanding state welfare , maternity grant and food and vitamin voucher entitlements , and access to food banks . 
Financial needs were often closely linked to housing needs and the fundamental need to provide their child with a habitable home that in situations of substandard accommodation or homelessness could supersede all other needs . 
For example , one commented , “ It 's hard to discuss singing and reading to your baby with someone who 's worried about having nowhere to live. ” And another : The right time is really , really important [ to discuss needs other than housing ] , because for a lot of them , it would n't be appropriate.… A couple of them actually said to me , ‘ I ca n't think about this now because my house is not sorted. ’ And for a lot of them , they 've got to get that house ; they 've got to get that safe , secure base for their baby before they can … think about the other bits . 
The right time is really , really important [ to discuss needs other than housing ] , because for a lot of them , it would n't be appropriate.… A couple of them actually said to me , ‘ I ca n't think about this now because my house is not sorted. ’ And for a lot of them , they 've got to get that house ; they 've got to get that safe , secure base for their baby before they can … think about the other bits . 
With regard to recognition , participants discussed a lack of awareness and/or understanding of needs among mothers . 
For example , bonding and attachment was described as an important need that could often be unfamiliar to young mothers from disadvantaged backgrounds . 
For example , one participant described attachment and bonding as a need of “ greatest importance ” requiring additional support , “ as they have never experienced that kind of intimacy ” during their own childhoods . 
Participants also discussed how some mothers could fail to recognize and/or normalize abusive and violent behaviors , requiring sensitive sharing of information over time to understand needs . 
One commented : We do relationship work … and what a relationship should be like , so we do quite quickly become aware if something is not quite right … we 've had parents say ‘ everyone has arguments and you get a wee slap ’ and then it 's talking about that and saying ‘ no that 's not normal ... . 
’ It can be like a drip , drip , drip ; sometimes lots of little things together can be a catalyst for change . 
We do relationship work … and what a relationship should be like , so we do quite quickly become aware if something is not quite right … we 've had parents say ‘ everyone has arguments and you get a wee slap ’ and then it 's talking about that and saying ‘ no that 's not normal ... . 
’ It can be like a drip , drip , drip ; sometimes lots of little things together can be a catalyst for change . 
Participants described running group sessions that shared information on acceptable and unacceptable behaviors in relationships that could lead to constructive discussion and disclosure . 
During such sessions mothers often had questions regarding sexual relationships , and in relation , what constituted consent , one participant commenting , “ That was quite scary , the consent , they did n't know. ” Another recalled a single session where , during such information sharing and discussion , three mothers disclosed that they had been victims of rape , and a fourth of serious assault . 
The information sources identifiable from participants ' discussions were categorized as : support workers , family and friends , social media , websites , libraries , and books and leaflets . 
An overarching theme was a preference among mothers for interpersonal sources of information , and in relation , an important intermediary sourcing and connecting role . 
Family and friends were important information sources for reasons of immediacy and trust , and due to a general reluctance among mothers to access unknown or unfamiliar external sources ( that is , other professionals , agencies , or baby groups ) . 
One described family and friends as often the “ first port of call. ” Another commented , Word of mouth is a biggie , talking to friends is a biggie , going on the Internet and looking at stuff , definitely … phoning or going to buildings to talk to people , … not so much . 
Word of mouth is a biggie , talking to friends is a biggie , going on the Internet and looking at stuff , definitely … phoning or going to buildings to talk to people , … not so much . 
Participants identified themselves as important sources and providers of information . 
Several believed that many of the mothers whom they worked with would not be able to find the information that they needed without their support . 
For example , one commented that it was “ very rare a parent will research themselves , ” and another described themselves as “ probably their only link between getting information and not getting information. ” Where information provision was beyond participant expertise , participants would signpost mothers to other agencies . 
However , although some mothers would access signposted agencies themselves , many would not without support , including making telephone calls . 
One commented : We can support them to a certain level … but there are things … out with our expertise and we have to get them to access additional services . 
And it 's getting them to feel confident enough to do that . 
We can support them to a certain level … but there are things … out with our expertise and we have to get them to access additional services . 
And it 's getting them to feel confident enough to do that . 
Participants identified online sources as important , but had limited understanding of what was being used , and this was of great concern due to issues of literacy ( see below ) . 
However , several participants also felt that many mothers have a preference for interpersonal sources of information . 
For example , one commented that many mothers “ want a person to ask rather than look up a computer. ” Books and leaflets are important , but have to be carefully selected and recommended by participants due to literacy and learning issues , and given issues of limited engagement with external agencies , provided directly via participants . 
Participants discussed a number of issues that impacted information interactions , categorized as : self‐esteem , low literacy , misinformation , information overload , upbringing , institutional bureaucracy , and practical access . 
Self‐esteem was considered a significant issue compounding issues of isolation and lack of peer support . 
For example , one participant commented that “ their [ mothers ] information needs would be met I think more readily if they had the confidence and self‐esteem to access [ information ] ” ; another that : Self‐esteem … plays a massive part because that brings about … shyness and … awkwardness . 
It 's not that they do n't want to know , they just ca n't verbalize how they want to learn . 
And they … then miss out . 
Self‐esteem … plays a massive part because that brings about … shyness and … awkwardness . 
It 's not that they do n't want to know , they just ca n't verbalize how they want to learn . 
And they … then miss out . 
Age‐related personal development was considered a contributory factor , with many mothers still variously dependent on their own parents/carers for many everyday tasks including making and attending health appointments , and reluctance to make appointments themselves that required disclosure of personal information , or to request information on sensitive topics . 
Mothers could also be reluctant to attend support groups involving singing , dancing , or reading in public . 
