Although the other categories of local community research have studied causations between community‐related features , they usually focus on a small group of demographics or particular technologies . 
Unlike this kind of research , many studies from computational social science , political science , and sociology explicitly target community‐level characteristics in understanding the dynamics of local communities . 
Their focus has been mainly to predict community features such as socioeconomic status using computational techniques ( e.g. , machine learning ) to provide low‐cost , real‐time indicators for various urban characteristics ( Figure 6a ) , and to understand the effects of community characteristics such as ethnic heterogeneity on other community outcomes ( e.g. , civic engagement ; Figure 6b ) . 
Community features predicted based on large‐scale datasets include , but are not limited to , the socioeconomic level in a city based on cellphone detail records ( CDR ; Blumenstock , Cadamuro , & On , 2015 ; Lee et al. , 2017 ; Soto , Frias‐Martinez , Virseda , & Frias‐Martinez , 2011 ) , recognizability of urban places and socioeconomic level using user‐generated data from a web‐based game ( Quercia , Pesce , Almeida , & Crowcroft , 2013 ) , land uses and points of interests ( POIs ) in a city using CDR and geo‐tagged tweets ( Frias‐Martinez , Soto , Hohwald , & Frias‐Martinez , 2012 ) , human mobility patterns using Foursquare and GPS trajectories ( Noulas , Scellato , Lambiotte , Pontil , & Mascolo , 2012 ) , and local friendships depending on physical distance using geo‐tagged Facebook data ( Backstrom , Sun , & Marlow , 2010 ) . 
Often , these studies needed to conceptualize and model digitized local information ( i.e. , raw data ) for describing their fundamental characteristics as a baseline to computationally find meaningful patterns . 
In other words , this kind of prediction study usually assumed that local information was geographically and demographically biased because of the irregular distribution of geo‐tagged data in a city and the technology users ' inconsistent demographics ( Quercia et al. , 2013 ; Venerandi , Quattrone , Capra , Quercia , & Saez‐Trumper , 2015 ) . 
Although some studies suggest that demographic biases are not wide‐spread in particular domains ( Quattrone , Capra , & De Meo , 2015 ) , it is a common understanding and challenge for urban computing researchers that geographical biases in geo‐tagged data need to be adjusted using mathematical techniques and richer datasets ( Wang , Schoenebeck , Zheng , & Zhao , 2016 ) . 
These studies , if viewed from the LIL perspective , develop prediction models that identify correlations between local information that exists in technical infrastructure ( e.g. , social media and cellphone vendors ' databases ) and community features such as socioeconomic status . 
This research stream is not only methodologically useful because of the cost‐effectiveness and mathematical novelty , but also theoretically meaningful in the LIL aspect due to the implications of local information itself . 
Because urban data is a type of local information available in a city , the efforts taken to use different types of data to predict community features can help understand the sources , distributions , qualities , and characteristics of various kinds of local information . 
Identifying biases in the data can reflect researchers ' value on data quality ( e.g. , eliminating modeling errors ; Wang et al. , 2016 ) ; but , it also could be the case that the geographical biases themselves may represent the characteristics of existing local information and have theoretical implications in their own right . 
Meanwhile , studies that focus on causalities between community features and outcomes have contributed to social science theories ( Head , 2007 ) . 
For example , civic engagement , a major community outcome , is a function of public interventions for connecting government and citizens ( Brown & Keast , 2003 ) and of broader community features such as community heterogeneity ( Costa & Kahn , 2003 ; Laurence , 2009 ; Putnam , 2007 ) . 
Although similar to the studies that implemented ICTs in local communities for increasing civic engagement , these studies examined direct causal effects of community‐level characteristics on civic engagement , which explains community‐level dynamics rather than illustrating correlations between urban features . 
In library and information science , local information has often been studied from an information behavior perspective in research focusing on library uses . 
Because public and school libraries are known as important local information sources for diverse populations , studies about library use can be seen , to some degree , as being related to local communities . 
For example , important factors that shape individuals ' library use and information behavior include cultural backgrounds ( Baron & Strout‐Dapaz , 2001 ; Bordonaro , 2006 ; Liu & Redfern , 1997 ) , public libraries ' efforts in technology education and assistance ( i.e. , digital literacy program ; Bertot , Real , & Jaeger , 2016 ) , and the use of online community networks ( Pettigrew , Durrance , & Unruh , 2002 ) . 
Library‐focused studies provide insight into the importance of institutional efforts to increase the accessibility ( e.g. , IT training ) , but also have limitations in the geographical coverage of information sources by constraining their locations . 
Other studies focused on immigrants ' information seeking and use that were closely related to their adjustment and settlement in a city . 
Particular contexts and information sources were found as critical factors that affected immigrants ' information behavior . 
These factors include close relationships ( Quirke , 2012 ) , the internet and online/offline social networks ( Khoir , Du , & Koronios , 2014 ; Komito & Bates , 2011 ) , and word‐of‐mouth ( Shoham & Kaufman , 2007 ) . 
Studies in everyday life information seeking ( ELIS ) further highlighted the exploration of what information practices ( e.g. , social media use ) became part of particular populations ' daily lives ( Lingel , 2011 ; Sin & Kim , 2013 ) . 
These studies about information behavior regarding library use and daily life , if viewed through the LIL lens , deal mostly with the relationships between community features ( e.g. , librarys programs , infrastructures , and cultural traits ) and people 's information behavior ( Figure 7a ) . 
Since information provision is a form of information behaviors from the conventional perspective , studies that focused on information provision could also be understood as a similar type of research to those mapped onto Figure 7a . 
From the LIL perspective , however , information provision research can be mapped onto LIL framework differently because the new conceptualization distinguishes the materiality of information from the use of it ( e.g. , nurses ' information sharing with seniors in a community clinic ) , thus is mapped to Figure 7b . 
Similar to the studies on the ELIS of immigrants , Oh et al . 
( 2014 ) studied international students ' information behavior when they first came to the United States . 
Oh and colleagues found that newcomers ' information seeking behavior , particularly their geospatial information seeking behavior , was unique in that people not only made use of technology and institutional information , but also depended on their social capital , ethnic groups , and the “ wandering‐around without any purpose ” strategy to find information . 
The position of this study in LIL framework is similar to the aforementioned ones ( i.e. , Figure 7a : the relationship between community features and information behavior ) . 
However , the wandering‐around behavior in a city for acquiring information is noticeable , because this behavior exemplifies people 's access and use of information directly through interactions with physical spaces . 
Along with the example of people 's interactions with data‐in‐place such as posting on PosterVote ( Taylor et al. , 2015 ) that was intentionally installed for facilitating people 's information sharing , the wandering‐around behavior implies that local information embedded on physical spaces actually shapes people 's information behavior in local communities ( Figure 7c ) . 
Also , these studies show that the information people seek and use is not limited to that from information providers but exist pervasively in a community with and without respect to actors ' intentions as LIL framework indicates . 
As reviewed with research from different disciplines , LIL framework ( Figure 4 ) can explain various relationships between factors and characteristics of local communities . 
Particularly , it was possible to understand information provision as a process in the formation of local information landscapes by distinguishing it from other information behaviors with the assistance of the LIL lens . 
This initial assessment partially resolves the causality challenge of the preliminary model ( Figure 1 ) . 
The mapping of empirical studies together suggests that LIL framework is a meta‐theoretical framework that explains diverse relationships between community characteristics , community outcomes , and local information landscapes . 
Therefore , it is possible to theorize these relationships found from LIL framework as a theory of local information landscapes ( LIL theory ) . 
Although many empirical studies implicitly demonstrate some parts of LIL framework , no research explicitly studied local information landscapes as a variable that affects or is affected by other community characteristics and outcomes . 
Thus , the causality challenge remains , and new problem spaces can be created to better understand the causal relationships between the components of LIL framework . 
At the same time , this new model provides theoretical implications for understanding information inequality and information poverty from a material perspective . 
Similar to the studies that take a socio‐technical approach to solving information access issues , the notions of information inequality and information poverty , while having different nuances , conceptualize people 's disparities in accessing information as socially‐constructed phenomena ( Norris , 2001 ; Schiller , 2013 ) . 
Information inequality has often highlighted social inequality imposed by such things as the power‐ and economy‐driven provision of information in mass media ( Schiller , 2013 ) , uneven possessions of information by individuals in different social classes ( Van Dijk , 2000 ) , and the general ICT capacity of households ( Hilbert , 2014 ) . 
Focusing more on the deprived side of the digital divide , information poverty often considers individuals ' situational aspects such as discrepancies in peoples ' digital literacy ( Eshet‐Alkalai , 2004 ) and their broader information processing incapability ( i.e. , information illiteracy ) beyond the digital skills ( Eisenberg , 2008 ) . 
Also , information poverty was understood as a result of the economic and technological deficiency ( Haider & Bawden , 2007 ) . 
Although the nuances and focus of this phenomenon are different across research communities , as Yu ( 2006 ) noted , it is an implicit assumption that most research studies on the topic of information inequality and poverty perceive information as a socially constructed entity . 
By taking the LIL lens , it becomes possible to understand information inequality and information poverty from a material perspective . 
Some notions that discuss some material characteristics of information can be found in previous studies . 
Particularly , if digitized data on the internet is conceptualized , material aspects of the data could surface . 
For example , the concept of data deserts has been explored as a societal or disciplinary characteristic that is affected by the recent explosion in digitized data . 
In computational and human geography , researchers suggested that data deserts exist in technical systems where data is scarce because data availability and continuity differed before and after the big‐data era ( Kitchin , 2014 ) . 
In a similar vein , HCI researchers in the domain of volunteered geographic information ( VGI ) have studied the data creation process by volunteers and articulated the notion of localness that explains the origins of data and data providers ( Sen et al. , 2015 ) . 
This stream of research found that there were discrepancies between the locations of editors who contributed to geographically‐specific Wikipedia pages and the regions that these pages referenced , providing evidence of geographical inequalities in data creation . 
Rural areas were not only more likely to have data created by outsiders , but also found to have lower quality data than urban areas on Wikipedia and OpenStreetMap because of the high portion of data created by automated agents ( Johnson et al. , 2016 ) . 
Although these studies have limitations in understanding information inequality in general in a community due to their focus on digital data ( leaving other forms of information behind ) , the term deserts in data deserts illustrates the meaning of materiality well . 
The use of the term , deserts , has been prevalent in the discussion of food deserts that signifies people 's disparities in accessing food resources such as grocery stores and restaurants ( Walker , Keane , & Burke , 2010 ) . 
Because food and the locations of food providers are material entities that have physical distances from each household , the concept of food deserts has been studied as a necessary condition of its manifestations in people 's lives and food accessibility . 
A takeaway from the food deserts studies is that the materiality of food matters as a factor that affects people 's lives . 
Conversely , the social construction of food was also studied : a study that took a socio‐technical approach in understanding food deserts examined the impact of families ' socioeconomic status on food 's symbolic values ( Fielding‐Singh , 2017 ) . 
These two different understandings of food accessibility issues are consistent with the two views on information accessibility issues suggested in this article : socio‐technical and material views . 
This observation and analogy justify the use of the term deserts for conceptualizing the material aspects of information inequality or information poverty , thus as information deserts . 
Based on LIL theory , information deserts can be defined as structural and material states of local information landscapes that are pre‐ or necessary conditions of community‐level information inequality ( but not a sufficient condition ) . 
As López et al . 
( 2014 ) suggested , there can be some material/structural forms of local information landscapes that could potentially affect people 's information inequality . 
Some examples of information deserts are as follows : When local information is fragmented across different information sources ( López et al. , 2014 ) . 
When local information is transient because of the material characteristics of embedding entities ( e.g. , word‐of‐mouth in a small group of people ) . 
When there is a lack of components of local information landscapes ( e.g. , lack of local bulletin boards in a neighborhood ) . 
When a certain type of local information is provided only to a part of the components of the LIL model , the distribution of information would be inconsistent across different information sources , and this might negatively affect people 's information accessibility . 
López et al . 
( 2014 ) ’ s work is a representative example that demonstrates information fragmentation with respect to technical infrastructure owners . 
This structural characteristic is distinguishable from the concept of fractured information landscapes , suggested by Lloyd ( 2017 ) , which takes a socio‐cultural view on the fracture of information landscapes where an individual 's familiarity with information sources and contexts is a key in understanding the overall landscape . 
The uneven distribution of local event information embedded in different technical infrastructures ( e.g. , neighborhood blogs and city‐wide newspaper websites ) shows that certain types of event information ( e.g. , museum‐initiated events ) are not available from neighborhood‐based websites ; instead , they are available in a city‐wide information source . 
This implies that information deserts can be unintentionally created as a byproduct of organizational strategies or because of the nature of particular information types . 
From a user perspective , it is possible that an individual would not be able to access every information available in the community unless he or she looks into all the information sources . 
Thus , the high fragmentation of local information could be potentially detrimental to people 's information access at the community level ( c.f. , it does not represent information inequality by itself ; rather , it is a necessary condition of information inequality ) . 
Even if information were provided evenly to the information sources in a community ( so there is no fragmentation ) , the transient characteristic of the entity that embeds information could create another form of information deserts . 
For example , if a piece of information was provided to a couple of people through word‐of‐mouth and they forgot about that information , it is understood from the LIL view that information deserts are created due to the transient characteristic of information ( because this information is no longer accessible ) . 
Another example can be found in a case where information is in a volatile memory of a computing system . 
If , for some reason , pieces of local information are stored only in a Random‐Access Memory ( RAM ) that stores data while power is on and there was a sudden power outage for a few seconds , then that information disappears because of the characteristics of RAM . 
The transience of information that stems from the material characteristics of the embedding components has a different meaning from that of the information that is available at the moment of practices , that is , contingent information , such as medical information acquired at the moment when a nurse examines a patient 's body ( Bonner & Lloyd , 2011 ) or that is informal/contextualized , that is , vernacular information ( Trace , 2008 ) . 
This type of information emerges from collective group activities , cultural experiences , and an internal view on information , thus , is called local knowledge as well ( Lloyd , 2014 ) . 
Contingent or vernacular information is available and sought depending on people 's understanding of situated practices and is perceived differently by time , space , and individual . 
Unlike this type of information , information deserts created based on the transience of information conceptualize any material states with a lack of information that stems from the characteristics of embedding entities . 
If there are not enough infrastructures , people , or spaces that can contain and provide local information , information deserts can be created as well . 
For example , physical bulletin boards are spatial entities that embed local information . 
People would have a hard time finding certain types of local information from locations where bulletin boards are scarce or absent ( e.g. , neighborhoods with few numbers of coffee shops and public libraries ) by eliminating the capability of information creation/provision in the local community . 
Similarly , a lack of neighborhood gatherings or technical infrastructures is another form of information deserts created by limiting the possibility of information provision . 
Given the forms of information deserts and LIL framework with respect to the scale , complexity , and persistence of the LIL components , research studies that can be designed in several academic fields are presented by identifying gaps using LIL framework ( Figure 4 ) . 
A few local community studies from HCI and CI highlighted information provision by focusing on the amount of information disseminated through infrastructures and people ( Carroll et al. , 2011 ; Foth , Forlano , Satchell , Gibbs , & Donath , 2011 ) . 
However , the effect of the information provision is still unexplored thoroughly for the three types of provisions ( i.e. , provisions to technical infrastructures , people , and physical spaces ) . 
In addition , HCI and CI tend to focus on one or a few particular systems when considering information provision . 
Mapping empirical studies onto LIL framework ( Figure 5 ) suggests that the impact of implementing new technology can be further explored by considering new categories of dependent variables : the characteristics of local information landscape and peoples information behavior regarding them . 
In most cases , some information systems , either technical or social , already exist when an ICT is implemented . 
Even for a developing country , for example , social systems such as a word‐of‐mouth network or local communication structures exist for exchanging information within a community . 
Designing and implementing a new ICT might help residents communicate better with each other regardless of the existing structure of local information landscapes , but it is also possible that adding one more system may lead to the high complexity of residents ' information access practices . 
Conducting user studies using only a new system may not capture the effects of adding new technology . 
Accordingly , new categories of research studies can be designed by considering these effects : Comparing people 's information behavior before and after deploying a new system given conventional information sources ( by focusing on their daily experiences , rather than their behavior regarding a new system ) . 
Identifying the amount and types of information that can be complemented in a city by implementing a new system . 
Designing and developing visual analytics tools that show how information deserts in a city change over time before and after implementing a system ( e.g. , how does the degree of fragmentation in LIL change ? 
) . 
Identifying and justifying the position and role of a new system within the existing local information landscape of a city ‐ whether it is an implementation of a complementary system that provides an easy access structure ( e.g. , Hu , Farnham , & Monroy‐Hernández , 2013 ) or a completely new system that provides new information that was hardly provided before . 
Many researchers have focused on identifying and adjusting geographical biases from datasets ( Wang et al. , 2016 ) , because it was essential to verify the characteristics of geospatial data and their findings in justifying prediction models . 
If we think of the geospatial data as a form of local information that is embedded in technical infrastructure , it is possible to say that biases in the data may actually represent the structure of local information landscapes ( or potentially information deserts ) by themselves . 
In this sense , quantifying and explaining diverse aspects of information deserts using geo‐tagged data would be possible for future studies . 
Also , studies that examined relationships between community features and outcomes ( e.g. , the effects of community heterogeneity on civic engagement ) can be re‐visited by taking LIL framework into account . 
Examples are as follows : Constructing mathematical models that quantify : –The degree of fragmentation of local information in a city . 
–The availability of each component of the LIL model . 
Predicting the effect of adding an information source in a city ( e.g. , how can we measure the impact of adding a Twitter‐based local information application on a city 's information deserts ? 
) Studying causal relationships between information deserts ( e.g. , the complexity of local information infrastructures ) and community outcomes ( e.g. , socioeconomic status ) . 
Studying how the LIL features ( e.g. , the fragmentation of local information ) mediate or moderate the relationships between community features and outcomes . 
Constructing mathematical models that quantify : –The degree of fragmentation of local information in a city . 
–The availability of each component of the LIL model . 
Existing theories about information access and behavior can be extended by making use of LIL theory . 
Also , based on the library and information science studies mapped in Figure 7 , it is possible to identify some hidden patterns of information behavior regarding the complexity , scale , and persistence of the LIL components . 
For example , because some studies about geospatial information embedded in physical spaces and social systems focus on particular contexts and scales of LIL components ( e.g. , space as a city environment ; Oh et al. , 2014 ; Pettigrew , 1999 ) , LIL theory can help systematically find other features of the LIL components by diversifying the complexity , scale , and persistence of each component . 
Some examples of such opportunities are as follows : Exploring people 's information seeking behavior where the scale of spatial entities is small and transient ( e.g. , customer 's information seeking behavior in a coffee shop where the turnover rate of flyers on the bulletin board is fast ) . 
Studying how the interplay between multiple sources that contain the same information manifests in different contexts ( e.g. , when the same information is available both from a bulletin board and librarians in a public library , how each affects people 's information seeking behavior ; how each of these components extends or limits the capability of another ; and how the information redundancy plays a role for library visitors in accessing it ) . 
Exploring how and why information is provided to a physical space ( e.g. , how information about local events , such as farmers markets , becomes embedded on physical spaces , and why ? 
What are the implications of actors ' information provision behavior ? 
) . 
Despite the advantages of the proposed theory and new research opportunities derived from it , some issues remain . 
First of all , the complexity of each component is still largely encapsulated in an abstract form . 
The component of people , even from a material perspective , can not be completely separated from human factors because some characteristics such as memorizing ability and their attentions are important in keeping information . 
The interactions and dynamics of groups and organizations themselves are very complicated processes that can affect the form of local information substantially . 
Although existing theories and models in HCI and Psychology explain diverse aspects of information users well , the people component needs to be further explored from the material perspective to characterize the local information landscape better . 
Articulating the scopes and priorities of the characteristics of the LIL components would make this model more useful for local community scholars . 
In addition , more empirical studies from diverse academic disciplines need to be explored to better understand and refine LIL theory . 
In this article , only some of the major academic fields that study local communities and cities were reviewed to construct LIL theory . 
However , there are many other empirical studies and academic fields that can complement and assess this theory ( e.g. , urban and transportation studies were not reviewed in this article ) . 
More efforts are needed by scholars from diverse academic fields to fill the potential gaps between studies that examine community‐level characteristics . 
Lastly , the LIL model has limitations with regard to explaining the emergence of highly‐situated information in the local community context . 
