Early in this study it was mentioned that the possibility of the terms Linked Data and Web of Linked Data represent concepts with different coverage ; the former covering a lesser extent than the latter , and this latter being a quasi‐synonym of the concept of Web of Data , specifying the data type “ of this web. ” According to this , and in the scope of the three concepts ( SW , Web of Data , and Linked Data ) , a more restricted understanding of the concept “ Web of Linked Data ” is made when associated with the term “ Web of Data. ” According to this narrower view , it can be noted in a W3C tutorial of 2014 that , by Web of Linked Data within the Semantic Web Standard Stack , only the SPARQL and RDF specifications are considered . 
These specifications relate , respectively , to the components : query and representation ( see Figure 4 ) . 
Web of Data , as presented in the previous point , requires the reasoning component or , putting it another way , it needs a set of rules , for automatic data processing , its consistent integration , and the discovery of new relations between them , in a process called inference . 
A similar perspective can be found in the isometric projection of the “ Semantic Web technology stack , ” where only a small fraction of the technologies is considered to belong to the Linked Data stack ( see Figure 5 ) . 
This representation is an adaptation made by Parapontis ( 2012 ) to the original picture by Nowack ; a change that reinforces what was shown above about the components included in the Web of Linked Data . 
The original representation does not describe the “ technologies ” that are part of the Linked Data stack and excludes the Query layer . 
The inclusion of this layer and the indirect linking to the formats and models layers happened in 2012 , as can be seen in Figure 5 . 
It presents the specifications SPARQL , RDF , and URI/IRI as the “ Linked Data stack technologies , ” that is , including only the query and representation layers . 
Thus , Web of Linked Data means , in fact , what James Hendler ( 2014 ) calls “ the Linked Data view of the Semantic Web , ” which essentially uses the specifications associated with the Representation and Query layers , since this approach only needs a little ontological agreement ( Hendler , 2014 , 25:50 ) . 
This is the reason why anyone who is involved in the development of applications related to Linked Data will mostly use RDF and SPARQL and significantly less , RDF‐S or OWL ( Cambridge Semantics , 2016 ; Hendler , 2011b , 46:05 ) . 
However , given the broad view adopted in this scope for the SW , the Web of Linked Data is not understood here as a particular view of SW ; rather , it is considered a specific subset of the technologies and concepts that is best tailored to the essentially unstructured environment of the WWW . 
This subset has been growing , as can be seen in the evolution of the diagram known as the “ Linked Open Data Cloud ” shown in the Figure 6 ( 2007 ) and Figure 7 ( 2017 ) . 
Although it does not exhibit nowadays the same gigantic growth from the early years ( about 50 times as many RDF triples in 4 years ) , we can note that the graph only shows the Linked Data in open format , not including the biggest commercial users of this particular set of “ Semantic Web technologies ” ( Hendler , 2011a , 34:15 ) . 
As the “ giants , ” we can cite : Facebook , Google , Microsoft , Yahoo ! 
, eBay , and Oracle ( Hendler , 2014 , 28:30 ) . 
Despite being adopted at that pace , for the end user the SW is still almost , or even completely , unnoticed . 
This is explained by the fact that the success of the SW occurs behind the scenes of the “ visible ” web ( Hendler , 2014 , 1:05 ; Sletten , 2014 ) . 
In 2011 , Ivan Herman , leader of the W3C Digital Publishing Activity , said : “ we forget about the client side for web applications world ” ( Hendler et al. , 2011 ) , in the same line as Massimo Marchiori who , 8 years earlier , claimed that people are the crucial missing part of SW ( Marchiori , 2003 ) . 
If we consider that : “ Linked Data tends to emphasize the Web part of Semantic Web and deemphasize the Semantic parts ” ( Cambridge Semantics , 2016 ) , and that the overall goal of the web is to assist humanity ( Berners‐Lee , 2009 , 24:45 ) , it can be said that an important component is missing from this equation . 
As mentioned , the Linked Data Web uses little semantic expressiveness . 
Besides RDF‐S , it only uses “ a very small part of OWL ” ( Hendler , 2011a , 26:45 ) and a type of knowledge organization system also known as “ light ontologies ” ( Hendler , 2014 , 32:15 ) . 
The term “ semantic expressiveness , ” when used in association with computational artifacts , such as the vocabularies mentioned above , is based on formal logic . 
The semantic and computational inference potential is based on : “ identifying contents or inferring them from already recognized contents , independently ( and despite ) of these contents ” ( Marcondes , 2012 , p. 63 ) . 
The increase of “ semantics ” is gained by increasing the restrictions that limit the possible interpretations of the contents represented to what is really intended to be expressed ( Wassermann , 2014 , 53:00 ) . 
This formal semantics is the actual semantics of the SW ( Almeida et al. , 2011 , p. 202 ) . 
According to Setzer ( 2015 ) “ It 's only a syntactic approach expressed through an axiomatic theory or mathematical associations of its elements with operations performed by a computer. ” Thus , we would expect the use of more powerful systems aiming at increasing the semantic expressiveness—such as “ heavy ontologies ” —to go beyond the Linked Data Web . 
However , these systems do not fit the open web environment , since this jeopardizes the consistency of their formal models ( Hendler , 2011b , 53:00 ; Hendler , 2014 , 21:10 ) . 
In this context , we need to “ bridge the gap ” between the existing Linked Data Web and the knowledge representation/organization systems of greater semantic expressiveness in order to obtain an effective Data Web ( Hendler , 2011b , 1:01:00 ; Hendler , 2014 , 47:35 ) . 
As the main findings of this article , we can state that the SW is a comprehensive construct that includes three components : the goal of making the web a global database dubbed the Web of Data , with the applications/interfaces necessary for its use ; the specifications developed or associated with this purpose , particularly those responsible for the so‐called Web of Linked Data , which is understood as the web created by the connection of data using open standards ; and the set of procedures and rules , called Linked Data , for the publication of data in order to allow the connection of the same to other data from different sources and formats . 
An illustration of the description made here can be seen in the diagram of Figure 8 . 
The hypothesis initially formulated can be confirmed , that we are witnessing an evolution , over time , in order to make the operationalization of the SW more concrete and immediate . 
The confirmation can be made from the analysis of the three categories ( descriptive characteristics , structural basis and goals and functionalities ) related to the structural requirements necessary for the SW to become a reality . 
Based on the first category , descriptive characteristics , we can conclude that there is a passage from the concept of semantic of a more abstract nature associated with the “ understanding ” of the information ( SW ) , to the syntactic processing , using concrete Linked Data ( Web of Linked Data ) , common to the computational environment . 
The analysis of the second category , structural basis , confirmed the above‐mentioned trend from SW to Web of Linked Data , through the combination of three factors : ( i ) the procedures related exclusively to the structuring of data for automatic processing were only observed between 1999 and 2001 ; ( ii ) from 2006 on , there was a concentration of procedures focused on the creation of interoperability between systems and data connection ; and ( iii ) a direct relationship between the most recent specifications and the term Linked Data was also confirmed . 
Regarding the third category , goals and functionalities , we have concluded that it is necessary to consider the operationalization of SW in the formal and temporal aspects . 
Besides , these two aspects are closely related , since the outcomes are associated with the recipients of the features offered by the W3C . 
If they are not restricted to end users , concrete SW functions ( formal aspect ) , already implemented as empowering web technologies can be considered as follows : ( i ) publish and link data using the RDF format ; ( ii ) use RDFa to make document content readable by machines ; and ( iii ) use the RDB2RDF standard to expose the contents of a Relational Database ( RDB ) in RDF format . 
These functions are directly related to the long‐term goal of the SW , which , according to the analysis presented in this article , can be described as the use of the web as a global database . 
The other three concepts : Web of Data , Web of Linked Data , and ( simply ) Linked Data , can be taken as a continuum with a descending order , as follows : Web of Data is the ultimate goal presented for the SW Web of Linked Data is a specific part of this purpose Linked Data is a specific aspect of that part Starting with the latter , the concept of Linked Data refers to the set of procedures and rules for the publication of data in order to enable them to be linked to other data from different sources . 
These procedures can be applied both inside and outside the web environment , as they can be used with data in open format ( Linked Open Data ) or proprietary format . 
We also concluded that the so‐called Web of Linked Data is the combination of these procedures applied in a web environment , using open data standards and following the SW specifications associated with the stack layers : a ) representation ; b ) query ; and c ) a subset of the reasoning layer , specifically , the light knowledge organization systems ( “ light ontologies ” ) . 
Regarding the difference between the Web of Linked Data and the Web of Data , we can highlight the limitations of the former—both in the reach of the linking possibilities and also on the semantic attributed to them . 
In the scope of this study , the Web of Data is an enlarged web that arises as a result of the development of the SW technologies , in which it is possible to carry out queries similar to those usually made in databases . 
In order for this “ vision ” to come true , it is necessary to unite two still tenuously connected outcomes : the virtually unlimited possibility of connections between data—reified in the web domain—with the potentiality of the automated inference of “ intelligent ” systems—that would be the “ semantic ” component . 
As a final remark , we understand that theoretical and critical contributions to the process of building and differentiating concepts is part of the science‐making process , and our contribution aimed at helping the understanding of the cartography of the subjects in scope . 
The SW propelled promises and changes that are felt as unrealized by many actors in the information science and technology area , perhaps because of the terminological metamorphosis we have tried to describe . 
We believe that mapping these changes and contextualizing the various concepts in a comprehensive framework is a contribution to the field . 
We understand that the present study allows us to have a holistic and systematic view of the whole conceptual landscape involved ( summarized in Figure 8 ) , which is , otherwise , found in different statements dispersed in several documents . 
We hope , in this way , to contribute to the interdisciplinary understanding of the subject , to foster its discussion , interpretation , and appropriation . 
As future work , and shed by the theoretical light of these findings , we can envision the analysis of the W3C SW technology evolution , from XML to contemporary proposals like the Efficient Extensible Interchange ( EXI ) , as a mean to fulfill the original views and the manifold paths it took since then . 
We also consider relevant the analysis of the concept of Web of Data , comparing the initial formulation as a global database and the current state that mixes all sorts of data types , ranging from CSV files to RDF links ( Lehmann et al. , 2017 , p. 1680 ) . 
