Information accessibility issues such as how libraries and other information institutions enable people to find desired information effectively have long been of interest to information science researchers ( Burnett , Jaeger , & Thompson , 2008 ; Culnan , 1985 ) . 
Disparities in information access have been characterized as the digital divide or information inequality because of people 's high dependency on technology in finding information ( Norris , 2001 ; Schiller , 2013 ; Van Dijk , 2005 ) . 
Because many factors are associated with these problems , information accessibility has been studied from ( a ) a human‐centered view based on the understanding of individual‐ or group‐level characteristics such as physical impairment ( Malu & Findlater , 2015 ) , economic status ( Smith & Hanisch , 2015 ) , generational factors ( Russell & Young , 2015 ) , contextualized experience ( Lloyd , 2005 ) , and education level ( Boer , 2015 ) ; and ( b ) a technology‐focused view that focuses on system or material factors such as the information aggregation/filtering technique ( Kavanaugh et al. , 2014 ) , information visibility ( Struppek , 2006 ) , and recommendation system performance ( Lee & Brusilovsky , 2017 ) . 
Of course , these issues are not solely about humans or technology ; rather a tension exists between the two approaches , placing each study somewhere on a socio‐technical spectrum ( Langefors , 1978 ) . 
The socio‐technical view provides valuable insight into the factors that affect people 's information access in various contexts and situations . 
At the same time , studies taking the socio‐technical approach assume that ( a ) information is socially‐constructed , ( b ) contexts where information is created and used , that is , information grounds ( Fisher & Naumer , 2006 ) , shape the dynamics of people in accessing information along with individual and technological factors , ( c ) information is somewhere in the virtual or physical world , and ( d ) the distribution and structure of available information is determined by socio‐technical strategies such as an efficient database design . 
These assumptions lead to the idea that understanding contexts and users , designing a proper information system for a particular context , and connecting users to the system through easy‐to‐use interfaces are the main concerns when addressing information accessibility problems . 
They provide an effective basis for identifying important aspects of individual‐ and organizational‐level information accessibility issues such as information seeking , using , and sharing . 
In a local community or urban environment , human‐centered and technology‐focused approaches can still provide a useful basis for understanding different types of information and various groups ' access challenges . 
However , studies that take a socio‐technical view are more likely to focus on the information within particular systems that are used by specific groups of people . 
As a result , it is possible for information science researchers and system designers to overlook the larger systems of information in a community and their implications for both individuals and the community . 
In other words , socio‐technical approaches risk underestimating the effects of the complex structures of available information and local information sources that constantly shape individuals ' information behavior and access , regardless of new information systems . 
If a researcher studies a digital literacy problem of residents in a city by examining their use of particular online calendars and websites for seeking local event information , for example , this researcher may have to target only a part of the event information available in the entire city , maybe 20 % at most , according to a study by López , Butler , and Brusilovsky ( 2014 ) . 
It would be possible to understand residents ' information behavior and barriers in using the target information sources , but the researcher may face difficulties in explaining their holistic capacity that stems from other existing infrastructures and information sources . 
Even if people have access to local event information through social media , there could be other important information that is available only on physical bulletin boards in a neighborhood , or that is not available at all in formal online and offline locations , but only disseminated through a limited number of people . 
This suggests that understanding the structure and complexity of local information at the community level can provide useful perspectives on individuals ' information access and behavior . 
However , theorizing the community‐level information landscapes is challenging because there are many different users and contexts interacting with each other in a community . 
One way to minimize the effects of diverse users and contexts is to highlight the materiality of information ( Dourish , 2017 ) . 
An analogy for the materiality of information can be drawn from discussions on the materiality of technology . 
Technology can be understood as material by itself before it is understood as a socially‐constructed entity where its roles depend on social contexts and people who use it ( Leonardi , Nardi , & Kallinikos , 2012 ) . 
Similarly , scholars conceptualized the materiality of information because information is presented as material forms such as a monitor display , flyers on a bulletin board , and magnetic tapes , which provide different capabilities for information users ( Dourish , 2017 ; Dourish & Mazmanian , 2011 ) . 
The materiality of information is a pre‐ or necessary condition of the social construction of information . 
Also , it allows us to understand the forms and structure of local information at the community level by mitigating its entanglements with diverse contexts and users . 
This article presents a theory of local information landscapes ( LIL theory ) for studies of local information that considers the impact of the complexity and diversity of the overall local information that exists in diverse forms . 
To develop this theory , a conceptual model is constructed by viewing the local information landscape in a community as an entity that has structures and features and exists on top of various infrastructures and spaces . 
In other words , the structure and features of local information , or the local information landscapes , are suggested as important elements that will affect people 's information behavior and accessibility . 
This material view provides opportunities to identify otherwise overlooked aspects of local information ; specifically it leads us to think about ( a ) the creation of information landscapes that is closely related to the provision of information , ( b ) the relationships between local information landscapes and other community features such as civic engagement and economic well‐being , ( c ) the conceptual differences between information behavior and provision , ( d ) the understanding of local spaces , people , and technical infrastructures as material entities that embed and provide local information , and ( e ) how the material pre‐conditions of information inequality in a local community , that is , information deserts , look and how they can be conceptualized and assessed in a systematic way . 
With the assistance of LIL theory , this article sheds light on the community‐level characteristics of information that were rarely considered by previous studies . 
From a theoretical perspective , researchers who study local community‐related subjects can benefit from this proposed theory , because it provides a new lens , vocabularies , and theoretical constructs to think about the relationships between information provision , community features , community outcomes , and information access . 
Practically , LIL theory can help local information system designers and policy‐makers understand a holistic structure of local information in their planning stage by asking questions , such as “ how will new information systems change the overall information availability in a community ? 
” To develop LIL theory , models and theories about information access and behaviors are reviewed for understanding the current scope of existing theories . 
After identifying the challenges of reviewed theories in the context of local community research , the concept of the virtual is adapted from communication theory ( De Souza e Silva & Sutko , 2011 ) . 
By incorporating the concept of the materiality of information , the adjusted model of the virtual helps to conceptualize the interplay between physical space , technology , people , and local information . 
Also , the proposed model is useful for identifying gaps that existing models of information access do not or can not explain in detail . 
By reviewing empirical studies about local communities and information , a new framework of local information landscapes is assessed and theorized as LIL theory . 
Based on this theory , research opportunities regarding the emergence and implication of community‐level information studies are presented for different disciplines . 
Finally , the implications and limitations of this work are discussed . 
Some theories and models that explain information behavior , access , and contexts are relevant for describing the relationships between local information‐related factors and other community factors . 
They include , but are not limited to , models developed in information science , human‐computer interaction ( HCI ) , and communication . 
Among many other theories about information behavior and access , this article focuses on five models that exhibit a reasonable variability in their coverage of theoretical components because they provide an initial understanding about current streams of local information research and help identify potential risks and challenges in the research programs . 
The theory of information worlds , which integrates Chatman 's small world concept and Habermas ' notion of the public sphere , explains multi‐level influences that affect people 's information access and behaviors ( Chatman , 2000 ; Habermas , 1991 ; Jaeger & Burnett , 2010 ) . 
Social boundaries and influences around individuals that vary from small world influences , such as a family and friends , to life‐world structures , such as institutions and technology , shape people 's information behaviors and activities . 
According to this theory , small world and life‐world influences are not two separate constructs , but two endpoints of a social influence spectrum , while still interacting with each other ( Jaeger & Burnett , 2010 ) . 
Also , the theory of information worlds explains different kinds of information access issues , that is , physical , intellectual , and social access ( Burnett & Jaeger , 2008 ) , that are affected by various environmental and contextual influences from the user perspective . 
For example , viewed from the information worlds lens , the CiVicinity project ( Hoffman , Robinson , Han , & Carroll , 2012 ) , a web‐based local information portal that combines and filters local news and events from multiple information sources , can be explained using the “ boundary ” concept ; that is , the new technology not only enhances individuals information access and use , but also expands technological and institutional boundaries by consolidating diverse information sources , that is , an element of normative information behavior ( Burnett & Jaeger , 2008 ) . 
Although this theoretical lens allows us to understand information technology as part of the social and environmental influences that shape individuals information behavior , it marginally conceptualizes how information is created , accessed , and acquired by an individual , which is an essential part in describing the community‐level structure of information . 
Contextualizing and focusing more on people 's interactions with the environment , Lloyd ( 2010 ) suggested the concept of the information landscapes to describe the settings in which information literacy is understood and manifested . 
According to her , information landscapes is a socially constructed , intersubjectively‐created space that stems from people 's interactions , collective experiences , and information practices , which in turn shape shared knowledge among them ( Lloyd , 2010 ) . 
Given this conceptual space , information literacy is understood as people 's activities and skills that are required to process and deal with the shared knowledge and situated information ( Lloyd , 2006 , 2010 ) . 
At a workplace , for example , an information landscape is formed through the interactions between an individual 's literacy and other employees ' actions ; in an educational environment , it is created mostly based on students ' literacy and textual information in books ( Lloyd , 2006 ) . 
In these examples , information is a socially‐constructed entity and a result or medium of the interaction between the information user and provider . 
Accordingly , the information landscapes of individuals change rapidly with regard to contexts and their contextualized experiences , shaping different landscapes for one another . 
Also , this conceptualization leads us to understand information inequality as a phenomenon that is closely related to peoples literacy and their interactions with the diverse contexts in which they are embedded . 
It provides an insightful understanding of the interactions between information providers and receivers . 
However , at the same time , analysis becomes intractable when it comes to the community level because of the complex entanglements between diverse users , providers , and contexts . 
Compared to the theories of information worlds and information literacy landscapes , the model of information grounds highlights the situational aspect , that is , grand contexts where information is generated ( Fisher , Durrance , & Hinton , 2004 ; Fisher & Naumer , 2006 ) . 
In an empirical study of information grounds ( Pettigrew , 1999 ) , community health nurses ' information behavior was examined during their services for elderly people . 
This study found that nurses ' information giving behavior , that is , information provision , was affected by four elements of information grounds that collectively created a grand context : environmental factors ( e.g. , type of building , weather ) , activities ( e.g. , treatment processes ) , factors associated with nurses ( e.g. , knowledge of local resources and senior 's situations ) , and factors associated with patients . 
These elements partially overlap with those from the theory of information worlds ( e.g. , the layout of a building can be explained by the “ explicit boundary ” idea in information worlds ) . 
Savolainen ( 2009 ) compared these two models regarding spatial and social factors and concluded that they complemented each other by emphasizing different aspects . 
Spatial and social factors are normative constraints in a small world , while they are opportunities that enable serendipitous information seeking and sharing from the information grounds perspective . 
As such , the model of information grounds systematically explains factors and contexts that shape the information provision process by individuals . 
However , this model is still limited in conceptualizing diverse forms of local information in a holistic manner , thus providing marginal implications on the community‐level structure of local information . 
A study from HCI also conceptualized the creation and flow of local information in neighborhoods as data‐in‐place , as a result of implementing location‐based technology ( Taylor et al. , 2015 ) . 
Unlike information grounds , local data was intentionally created by installing physical devices ( e.g. , PosterVote ) to develop the notion of data technology in a local community as an ecosystem of devices and services . 
Specifically , they characterized local information as a thing that matters by interacting with residents , shapes contours by being transferred , reflects spatial/temporal/social structures , and forms small worlds where each has its own internal logic ( Chatman , 2000 ) . 
By elaborating on the characteristics of data in a material form in a neighborhood ( as opposed to an abstract form of it in the cloud servers ) , this model effectively rationalizes how data interacts with people and places , and thus how data technology can be designed in ways that enhance community engagement . 
Although limited in including other forms of data such as social media data in the model and in explaining people 's information seeking behavior because of the intentional creation of data , it combines the concept of small worlds with materialized data to better describe the impact of local technologies on people 's lives . 
Some studies in the field of communication also suggested a useful model for describing local information systems . 
As the communication research field has mainly viewed information technology as media for enhancing communications , technical infrastructures in a local community were seen as communication channels and conceptualized as communication infrastructure ( Ball‐Rokeach , Kim , & Matei , 2001 ; Kim & Ball‐Rokeach , 2006 ) . 
Because this approach is useful in interpreting and characterizing communications among local residents , it can be beneficial in explaining people 's interactions that are a basis for civic engagement . 
Taking this view , the CiVicinity example can be understood as one of many communication infrastructures that facilitates information exchange among people in a neighborhood ( Hoffman et al. , 2012 ) . 
However , the focus of this model is limited to the flow and dissemination of information , that is , communication , rather than forms and availability of information in a static manner . 
As a result , the dynamics and effects of local information itself are not well characterized by the communication infrastructure view . 
Together , these theoretical models explain different aspects of individuals ' information seeking , sharing , and using behaviors in community settings , as well as the impact of local information on residents ' dynamics . 
Viewed at the community level , based on the coverage of these models , it is possible to construct a conceptual diagram that summarizes the relationships between community factors that affect information behavior/access/provision and community outcomes that are affected by peoples information behavior/access/provision ( Figure 1 ) . 
Each theory or model is mapped to the corresponding arrows that show causalities or effects explained by it . 
Also , information behavior and provision are not distinctive concepts in this model because information provision is one of the information sharing behaviors of an individual , so they are attached together in the diagram . 
However , this preliminary model for local information research provides limited understanding for local information when it comes to the level of community , as it presents two major challenges : an ontological challenge , where none of the theoretical models in Figure 1 conceptualizes how provided information exists in a local community , and a causality challenge , where it is hard to explain how information provision affects individuals ' information behavior and how provided information itself is related to other community factors . 
To understand the complexity and diversity of local information , its sources , and their interactions with each other , it is necessary to have a new model that leverages and articulates the structure and features of information available in a local community . 
This new conceptualization needs to be capable of ( a ) explaining different kinds of information available in a community in an abstract way , ( b ) providing an understanding of how complex relationships between diverse entities that contain information manifest , and ( c ) suggesting ways to describe different kinds of local information sources at the community level ( rather than at the individual‐ or organization‐level ) . 
The ontological challenge of the preliminary model ( Figure 1 ) can be resolved through a new model that explains a community‐level , material structure of local information . 
Among many other models and frameworks , the notion of the virtual is adapted to conceptualize how local information looks at the community level ( De Souza e Silva & Sutko , 2011 ) . 
De Souza e Silva and Sutko ( 2011 ) conceptualized the interplay between people , space , technology , and information to understand the location‐based technologies that people use in an urban environment based on the philosophy of the virtual . 
Unlike other communication theories , this model focuses less on technology as a communication medium , but rather recognizes location‐based technologies as entities in the space of the virtual where one component limits or extends the capability of another among people , technology , space , and information . 
The characterization of the interplay between components of the virtual , that is , ” limiting or extending the capability , ” aligns well with the concept of materiality , because materials ( e.g. , a computer ) come with capacity and ability before they are used in a meaningful way ( Leonardi & Barley , 2008 ) . 
Although not particularly developed as a material model of location‐based technologies , the concept of the virtual can be adapted by incorporating the discussion of materialities of information ( Dourish , 2017 ) . 
Because people , space , and technology are material entities that contain local information and , at the same time , provide representations of information , local information at the community level can be understood as being embedded in these entities while each component extends or limits the capacity of another ( Figure 2 ) . 
This new model explains a material state of how local information exists in a community and connotes the pre‐condition of socially‐constructed information ( i.e. , the condition of information before it becomes meaningful to people ) . 
Also , the adjusted model of the virtual denotes a material instantiation of context , because a combination of its components ( e.g. , nurses as people and buildings as spaces ) is a necessary condition for a particular context before it is realized as socially‐constructed elements ( e.g. , nurses as service providers and buildings as medical places11 The concepts of place and space follow the distinction made by Harrison and Dourish ( 1996 ) , where space denotes the three‐dimensional , physical structures while place includes cultural and social meanings attached to it . 
) . 
The embeddedness of information in material entities can be supported by previous studies about information behavior and access . 
The model of information grounds explains how information is created and provided to people . 
In the example of nurses in a community‐based clinic ( Pettigrew , 1999 ) , information is given to elderly people by the influences of the environment ( i.e. , medical place ) , activity , and individual factors . 
From a material perspective , this sharing behavior is a provision of information to a social system . 
Meanwhile , other examples such as international students ' wandering around behavior ( Oh , Butler , & Lee , 2014 ) and the fragmentation of local information sources ( López et al. , 2014 ) indicate that local information can be provided directly to physical spaces and technical infrastructures , respectively . 
These studies together , with the adapted model of the virtual , suggest that the process of local information provision can be described in any of three ways : Provided to a technological infrastructure ( e.g. , posting a story on social media ) Provided to a physical space ( e.g. , posting a flyer on a bulletin board ) Provided to a social system ( e.g. , notifying students about homework in a class ) In addition to the information provision process , the components of the virtual also have features such as scale , complexity , and persistency ; it can be about space ( small/homogeneous vs. large/heterogeneous ) , technology ( small/simple vs. large/complex ) , and people ( small group vs. complex social system ) . 
The material characteristics of a component might determine the persistency/transience of local information as well ( e.g. , a small group of people forgot about particular information ; or data before saving it in a computer was gone because of a power outage ) . 
An example of the relationship between the scales of some components and the characteristic of information is shown in Figure 3 . 
The scale , complexity , and persistence of components , in turn , create a multi‐dimensional model that better explains the material aspects of local information at the community level . 
In other words , the interplay between the components of the virtual comprises a local information landscape . 
We define this adjusted concept of the virtual as the model of local information landscapes ( LIL model ) . 
Based on this model , it is possible to refine the preliminary model of local community research ( Figure 1 ) . 
The new theoretical framework , that is , LIL framework , is presented in Figure 4 . 
By inserting the model of local information landscapes in the preliminary model , it is possible to flesh out how information is provided to the community and the roles it plays in shaping individuals ' information behavior and other community outcomes . 
LIL framework not only resolves the ontological challenge of the preliminary model , but also makes distinctions between information provision and behavior by viewing information in a material way . 
LIL framework allows us to focus on the roles of the technical and material systems in shaping other socio‐technical dynamics of how people use , seek , and share information . 
Also , it implies that information availability in a community depends not only on individual or organizational actions to provide information to a community 's spaces , digital fora , and/or social groups , but also how the interplay between the components of the virtual shapes their capabilities to embed and provide local information . 
LIL framework integrates diverse studies about local communities , partially resolving the causality challenge of the preliminary model . 
To provide an initial assessment of the proposed framework 's face validity , it is necessary to synthesize a broader spectrum of studies that deals with local communities and information . 
Throughout several academic disciplines , studies on this spectrum can be roughly categorized into three themes : ( a ) deployment of information and communication technologies ( ICTs ) to solve community problems , ( b ) correlation and causation between community features , LIL features , and community outcomes , and ( c ) examination of peoples information behavior in local community settings . 
Many studies from HCI and community informatics ( CI ) have focused on the psychological and human factors of residents and other community outcomes as dependent variables , and have designed and deployed technology as a means to solve local community problems . 
A representative work in this paradigm is Carroll 's notions that characterize important community outcomes ( Carroll , 2014 ) . 
He conceptualized local community qualifications with three facets : ( a ) community identity ( attachment ) , ( b ) participation and awareness ( engagement ) , and ( c ) social support network , which as a whole represents people 's connectedness to the community . 
Having these kinds of community outcomes as main objects , community informatics and HCI researchers studied how various ICTs affected community outcomes such as people 's community engagement and sense of connectedness to the community ( Han , Shih , Rosson , & Carroll , 2014 ; Humphreys , 2010 ; LeDantec , Watkins , Clark , & Mynatt , 2015 ; López & Farzan , 2015 ; Pasek , More , & Romer , 2009 ) . 
This trend has been predominant in the field of information and communication technologies for development ( ICT4D ) , a sub‐field of HCI and CI . 
Many studies implemented ICTs in local communities of developing countries and examined how technology influenced community outcomes . 
Examples include , but are not limited to , how increasing internet access through a community information center affected rural people 's lives in Bangladesh ( Hossain , 2015 ) , wheather mobile phones eliminated non‐commercial farmers ' poverty ( Smith & Hanisch , 2015 ) , and how a technology literacy program sustained and enhanced local culture , beliefs , and traditions ( Abd Aziz , Fitri , & Soubakeavathi , 2015 ) . 
In this stream of studies , issues about people 's information access , intermediary processes in achieving study goals , are not explicitly discussed and are often assumed as being resolved through the deployment of technological solutions . 
The presumption behind this might be the fact that community outcomes such as socioeconomic level , inequality , or civic engagement can be enhanced by either facilitating people 's exchange of information or increasing their access to information that exists on the internet ( without this assumption , for example , a technology 's influence on civic engagement is hardly explained ) . 
From the LIL perspective , these studies can be mapped onto the arrow between community features ( i.e. , technology ) and outcomes ( e.g. , civic engagement ) in LIL framework ( Figure 5a ) . 
Other studies in CI did not directly focus on community outcomes , but instead studied information access , provision , and dissemination . 
For example , Muthiah ( 2015 ) studied how a voice message service enhanced farmers ' information dissemination in India and tried to understand if information dissemination actually helped reduce the poverty level in a community . 
Also , Schuler ( 2015 ) explored how academia could make community ICTs more relevant in the realm of civic intelligence . 
These research studies provide a methodological approach to generating information in a local community and imply that community‐wide strategies are necessary for facilitating information provision . 
These types of studies can be mapped onto the arrow between community characteristics and information provision ( Figure 5b ) . 
Design studies that focus on crowdsourcing platforms for local communities are another stream of research in the category of technology deployment . 
Volunteered geographic information ( VGI ) ‐based systems are representative work for solving information provision problems by implementing a specific platform ( Hara , Le , & Froehlich , 2013 ; Masli , Bouma , Owen , & Terveen , 2013 ) . 
Figure 5c shows the positions of these types of HCI and CI studies . 
Because these studies do not further examine the impact of the new technology on the local information landscape of a community , there are opportunities to create a new problem space regarding the deployment of ICTs in communities . 
