This vocal/instrumental example illustrates how an accord can have a level of dilution ; a partial categorization in the scientific classifications becomes a watertight division when reflected in bibliographic classification . 
In this example , a classificatory idea that is part of the music domain 's organization of music knowledge is used in a more rigid way in bibliographic classifications . 
Therefore , instead of a binary accord/discord categorization , actually the similarity relationship between a scientific classification and bibliographic classification could be considered as more of an axis of accordance , with accord and discord as its poles . 
This section considers causation , and the influences of music scientific classification on bibliographic classification . 
The Oxford English Dictionary defines “ influence ” as “ to have an effect on ” ( Influence , v. , 2018 , definition b ) , so any sign of one classification having an effect on another could be said to be an influence . 
To some degree , a bibliographic classification is inevitably influenced by knowledge of the domain : the creation of terms in a bibliographic classification , hierarchies of those terms , or even the creation of basic categories , all require some level of subject knowledge . 
So , at the most basic level , music scientific classification inevitably influences bibliographic classification . 
( Note that this section focuses on music scientific classifications influencing a bibliographic classification . 
It is possible that in certain circumstances , this relationship could be reversed , and a scientific classification could be influenced by bibliographic classification ; the influence of DDC notation on the musical instrument classification by Hornbostel and Sachs [ Lee , 2014 , 2017 ] provides a musical example , and biomedical ontologies provide a possible nonmusical example of this phenomenon . 
) However , moving beyond basic subject knowledge , how can we analyze how music classification within the domain of music has influenced bibliographic classification ? 
Again , the paradigm shifts in KO are important here : in the early 20th century , Bliss and others espoused the idea that there was a straight line between scientific knowledge , scientific classification and bibliographic knowledge , and that line can be seen as a line of effect . 
Yet , although the paradigm shifts in KO that followed—the faceted approach and later the domain analytic approach—might move away from scientific classification as the prevailing approach to bibliographic classification , they do not necessarily move away from influence entirely . 
So , it could be assumed that when considering the accords between music scientific and bibliographic classifications , for example in Table 1 , that these are all caused by influence . 
However , before exploring whether this statement is even true , proving that accord is caused by influence is methodologically problematic : we usually only have the evidence of the resulting similarity ( or not ) , which can be constructed post‐facto by classification scheme detectives , rather than evidence of influence . 
Fortunately , examples such as the connections between the Phoenix schedule of DDC—which became the 20th edition of DDC , and is the structural basis of the contemporary DDC music schedules—and the instrument classification scheme , Hornbostel and Sachs , are exceptions ; here , documentary evidence helps to inform us of the intentions of the scheme 's authors and in these examples show how the Phoenix schedule was directly influenced by the scientific classification of instruments . 
In areas where explicit evidence of causation between scientific and bibliographic classification do not exist , one future possibility is to consider comparing theories that drive the classifications , to elicit meaningful comparisons . 
Although it is not possible to explore this further in this article , this could be considered for future research . 
Even more significant , influence is not a quality that automatically results in accord . 
It is vital to detangle the act of affecting and the resulting similarity . 
Although within two scientific schemes , Lee ( 2014 , p. 202 ) gives a useful example where one scheme ( a scientific instrument classification by Sakuri ) is designed specifically as a reaction to another scheme ( another scientific instrument classification , Hornbostel and Sachs ) . 
In this case , one classification influences another , but the result is discord rather than accord . 
This type of influence could be seen more broadly within the context of classification scheme criticism , a phenomenon articulated by Lee 's ( 2015 ) application of reception theory to classification schemes . 
So , translated to scientific and bibliographic classifications , influence can sometimes lead to discord between scientific and bibliographic classification , and in scheme‐criticism terms , the bibliographic classification would be seen as an act of criticism and a correction to a “ wrong ” scientific classification . 
In other words , scientific classifications may not always be perceived as being “ correct , ” especially if there are questions of out‐of‐date knowledge and thinking . 
Therefore , although this particular combination of influence and discord was found to be rare in music classification , it is conceptually possible and therefore important to modeling causation . 
Music classification also shows how influence may only lead to a partial accord . 
For example , the Phoenix schedule ( Dewey , Sweeney , Clews , & Matthews , 1980 ) uses various terms from , and partially echoes the structure of , the scientific classification Hornbostel and Sachs . 
Because of the importance of the Phoenix schedule , documentary evidence exists that shows how DDC consciously used Hornbostel and Sachs —see , for example , the introduction to Dewey et al . 
( 1980 ) , written by the scheme 's authors . 
Yet , when the DDC schedules are examined , it is shown that although some aspects of structure and vocabulary are in accordance with Hornbostel and Sachs , there are differences . 
For example , the Phoenix schedule has a separate keyboard class with prominent treatment of the piano ; yet , this negates Hornbostel and Sach 's treatment of pianos as just one example of a specific type of zither within the chordophones category ( stringed instruments ) , and their scheme has no keyboard class . 
This illuminates two important points about influence . 
First , influence between a single bibliographic classification and a scientific classification can be considered as a range , rather than a single , discrete attribute ; we could describe this range as existing between poles of “ influence ” and “ noninfluence. ” Second , the pianos example shows that scientific classification had a known influence on the construction of the Phoenix schedule , a different , as‐yet‐undiscussed phenomenon must have also had an influence to have led to the final placement of pianos . 
One explanation for this is the idea of “ purpose. ” On a theoretical level , scientific and bibliographic classification schemes are fundamentally different in their reasons for existence , a quality succinctly described by Jacob ( 2010 , p. 112 ) as “ purpose. ” Although the generic purpose of a bibliographic classification is primarily information retrieval , a scientific classification will have other purposes—for instance , see Beghtol ( 2003 ) who discusses knowledge creation as a key aspect of naïve classifications . 
So , it is logical to expect two things designed for different purposes to be different from each other in their realization . 
In some sense , the differing purposes could be seen as a direct competitor to the idea of influence . 
The DDC and Hornbostel and Sachs keyboard example can be used to illustrate this . 
The purpose of the DDC schedules was to organize works of music and works about music , and in the 1970s and 1980s , keyboard instruments such as the piano would have been an important part of the collections being classified . 
Conversely , the purpose of Hornbostel and Sachs was for organizing instruments ( and works about instruments ) and to demonstrate a scientifically sound organisation of musical instrument knowledge , which can be used to illustrate relationships and propagate scientific knowledge about instruments ; in such a system , there is no category of keyboard instruments , as instruments such as the piano are classified as being an example of a specific type of zither , belonging in the chordophone category . 
Therefore , we could hypothesize that although Hornbostel and Sach 's placement of the piano as an example within a very detailed class of chordophone was known by the authors of Phoenix schedule , the needs of the users of DDC who would be seeking their libraries ' significant piano and keyboard collections , trumped the influence of the scientific scheme . 
So far , situations have been discussed where music scientific classifications might have been deliberately ignored , either as an act of criticism of the scientific classification or because of the bibliographic classification 's overriding purpose of retrieval of music information . 
However , it is also useful to consider examples where there is no sign that music scientific classifications were considered in the creation of bibliographic classifications . 
For example , there is a lack of explicit mention of Busoni 's facets ( 1957 ) or mention of any other scientific music classification 's building blocks within the music bibliographic classifications considered for this study , despite the strong accord between Busoni 's facets and the consensus of facets used in bibliographic classifications . 
Lack of evidence does not in itself negate the hypothesis of influence from a scientific classification ; influence is a notoriously difficult essence to prove . 
However , this does asks an interesting question : do philosophers of music and LIS scheme creators/theorists independently break down music into its constituent elements and get the same result ? 
In other words , do the music bibliographic classifications bypass the scientific classification ; or , do we have an undocumented or unconscious influence from scientific classification ? 
Further , lack of influence that results in discord is also of interest . 
There are a number of possible explanations for this type of situation . 
One example is a lack of expertise about scientific classifications of music from the person designing the bibliographic classification , and this can be considered within the framework of domain analysis and the importance of subject expertise ( see , e.g. , Hjørland , 2008c , p. 89 ) . 
Further , using out‐of‐date subject knowledge could be seen as a variation of this noninfluence/discord combination , as the classification author is not influenced by current scientific classification because of unawareness of current scientific classification ( as a nonmusic example , see Blake [ 2011 ] for a discussion about zoological classification , where bibliographic classifications adhere to out‐of‐date scientific classification ) . 
So far , similarity and causation have been discussed , but from a fixed temporal perspective . 
In reality , the relationships between any scientific classification and bibliographic classification exist in time . 
A relationship itself could change over time , and it will also be influenced by general developments in the production of scientific knowledge in music and general bibliographic classification theories . 
Therefore , the temporal dimension is especially important to a study of relationships between classifications . 
Analyzing scientific and bibliographic music classifications reveals that time plays a particularly important part in one area of musical knowledge : the main structure of instrument classification . 
Within the music domain , organological studies—research focused on musical instruments—reveal that the most common categorization of instruments was a “ traditional ” three‐category system that divides instruments into wind , strings , and percussion . 
For instance , Kartomi ( 1990 , p. 136 ) suggests that the three‐prong system was in place from Medieval times through to the 18th century ; in fact , some writers cite an even older “ source , ” suggesting that the three‐category system is actually biblical ( Galpin , 1937 , p. 25 ) . 
However , during the late 19th and 20th centuries , there was much criticism within the music domain of this three‐part system : for example , Hornbostel and Sachs , authors of the eponymous and critically important scheme of instrument classification , describe three‐category schemes as “ inadequate ” and “ illogical ” in the introduction to their scheme ( Hornbostel & Sachs , 1992 , p. 445 ) . 
In 1880 , there was a seismic change in conventional organological thinking about instrument classification : Mahillon 's classification scheme created for the Musée Instrumental du Conservatoire Royale de Musique in Brussels ( Kartomi , 1990 , p. 163 ) took the revelatory approach of dividing the population of musical instruments into four , not three , families and these four categories were used in Hornbostel and Sachs in 1914 . 
The four categories used by Hornbostel and Sachs divide instruments on how the sound is activated , rather than how the instrument is played , and in Hornbostel and Sachs ' terminology are labeled idiophones , membranophones , chordophones , and aerophones . 
Analysis of bibliographic classification schemes is a useful way of determining the broad categorization of instruments within LIS . 
For example , in a study of instrument classification , Lee ( 2017 , p. 244 ) found that 14 out of 15 example LIS schemes showed structural adherence to the three‐part categorization of instruments ; further , even when specifically considering schemes that originated at similar times to Mahillon ( first published in 1880 ) and Hornbostel and Sachs ( first published in 1914 ) —the 1st , 7th and 10th editions of DDC and the original and revised editions of LCC—it was found that bibliographic classifications still followed the three‐category system ( Lee , 2017 , p. 244 ) . 
Therefore , it seems that a bifurcation in the categorization of instruments occurred in 1880 . 
The established , three‐category system used by those working with instruments up until the 19th century was replaced by Mahillon 's scientific classification , and this was popularized by Hornbostel and Sachs from 1914 to the present day . 
However , the bibliographic classification schemes largely continued to use a three‐part categorization system despite the change in scientific classification . 
So , in terms of similarity , the relationship between scientific classifications of instruments and bibliographic classifications of instruments can be seen as both accord and discord ; however , whether the similarity aspect of the relationship between the scientific classification and bibliographic classification is accord or discord depends on time . 
So , it is a dynamic relationship . 
We could call this particular relationship “ bifurcation. ” According to the Oxford English Dictionary , a bifurcation is a “ division into two forks or branches ( viewed either as an action or a state ) ” ( Bifurcation , n , 2017 , definition 1a ) . 
In the context of a relationship between a scientific classification and bibliographic classification , bifurcation means that the accord between scientific classification and bibliographic classification turned into discord . 
It is interesting to question the reasons for this bifurcation of scientific and bibliographic classification of instruments . 
What explanations could be offered as to why bibliographic classifications did not follow scientific classifications in having the Hornbostel and Sachs four categories of instruments , as devised in 1914 ? 
One possibility is that there were competing classifications taking place in the 20th century from others working in the domain of music : as well as those who are formally involved with classifying instruments and knowledge about instruments ( organologists ) , instrument categorization is also part of practical music‐making . 
Organologists writing in the later 20th century maintain that the traditional three‐category system of wind , strings and percussion is still the prevalent organization system in place for orchestras and performers ( Dournon , 1992 , p. 252 ; Hood , 1971 , p. 124 ) . 
Even today , the average symphony orchestra 's divisions into strings , woodwind , brass and percussion ( Campbell & Greated , 1987 , p. 183 ) bear more similarity to the traditional three‐category division than to the structure of Hornbostel and Sachs . 
Therefore , although scientific classification from organologists changed in structure over time during the 20th century , this was not echoed in another part of the domain—namely , the performers of Western art music . 
So , one possible reason that bibliographic classifications of instruments did not radically change their structure during the 20th century to match the changes in scientific classification , was that they were following the classification structures of a different part of the domain . 
These instrument examples show the importance of studying the temporal nature of the connections between scientific and bibliographic classifications . 
In addition , the instrument examples show that in addition to multiple scientific classifications , there also might be differing classifications between different agents in the same domain . 
This results in a rich set of relationships between classifications of music . 
This article has discussed three characteristics of the relationships between music scientific and bibliographic classifications : similarity , causation and time . 
Three important patterns emerge for the music domain in the realm of similarity : accord , discord and bifurcation . 
Therefore , the 26 examples from Table 1 can be divided between these three groups—see Figure 1 . 
( The number of music domain relationships differs between Table 1 and Figure 1 : some relationships listed as both an accord and discord in Table 1 only need to appear once when they are described as a bifurcation in Figure 1 . 
) Figure 1 is novel as it emphasizes that there is no singular relationship between scientific and bibliographic music classification , and that similarity is dynamic . 
When discussing causation , it was shown that there was no automatic connection between similarity and influence . 
Although it might be expected that scientific classifications for music influence bibliographic classifications and this leads to accords , this was not the only possibility . 
Other possibilities are illustrated in Figure 2 , which also shows the so‐called traditional approach in a darker box . 
The music classification examples and the discussions about similarity , causation and temporal aspects , illustrate that the relationship between music scientific and bibliographic classifications could be considered as three separate dimensions . 
These are combined in a model and visualized in Figure 3 . 
This model shows the accordance dimension as a thick arrow , with accord and discord as its two poles . 
The accordance dimension plots the actual similarities between a music scientific classification and bibliographic classification . 
Further , situations where a music bibliographic scheme follows a scientific scheme for some aspects but not for others , could easily be accommodated in this model by placing such a relationship partway between the accord and discord poles . 
The causation dimension is indicated by a thick arrow : “ noninfluence ” is one pole , and “ influence ” is the other . 
The traditional approach is depicted in this model as a red circle , placed where accord and influence are both high—see Figure 3 . 
However , this visualization also allows for the situations discussed previously , which have different combinations of causation and similarity . 
For example , a second red circle represents the cases where the bibliographic and scientific music classifications had the same structure , but no direct influence was proven ; this is shown as a high level of accordance but near the noninfluence pole . 
A third red circle plots the possibility of a bibliographic classification disagreeing with the scientific classification , and being a reaction to it ; this red circle is placed where influence is high , but accordance is low . 
The fourth red circle depicts those situations where the music scientific classification did not influence the bibliographic classification , and the schemes are dissimilar—perhaps caused by lack of subject expertise by the creator or updater of the bibliographic classification . 
The temporal dimension is important and is also shown as an arrow—see Figure 3 . 
Note that this arrow is illustrated with a dotted outline and fainter color block , because of the limitations of representing a third dimension on a two‐dimensional graphic . 
This shows how any combination of influence and similarity also has a position in the temporal dimension . 
Changes of accordance and/or similarity over time can be plotted using arrows ; for example , the idea of bifurcation—as seen , for example , between the broad categorization of musical instruments in scientific and bibliographic classifications—can be plotted as an arrow that moves from a point of high accordance to low accordance over time . 
( Note the use of arrows rather than points for temporal relationships such as bifurcation , is because of the relationships being defined by their change of accordance over different values of time . 
) Further , this model is also useful for illustrating relationships that were not found in this study of music classification , but could be sought in further research . 
For example , although no examples of convergence were discussed , in other words , a music bibliographic classification becoming more similar to a scientific classification over the progression of time , and a near‐opposite of bifurcation , this model shows how this relationship could exist , and generates potential research questions for future study . 
So this model ( Figure 3 ) shows how the connections between music scientific classifications and bibliographic classifications are actually an amalgamation of various , interconnected relationships in three different dimensions . 
Further , the delineation of these dimensions could also help discovery of new connections between different music classification approaches . 
