The organization of knowledge within a domain is a vital issue in contemporary library and information science ( LIS ) , and a call‐to‐arms has been issued by a number of classification theorists asking for more research into scientific classification within knowledge organization ( KO ) . 
A scientific classification refers to the organization of knowledge by those working and researching within that domain , and therefore reflects the knowledge 's creators and extenders , and individuals who embody that knowledge . 
( Note we use the term scientific classification as a broad term that could cover any subject area including music . 
The problems with terminology in this area of KO , and the rationale for using the term scientific classification are discussed in the next section . 
) However , analysis of the relationships between scientific classifications and bibliographic classifications has received patchy coverage in KO discourse . 
So , this article explores the nature of the relationships between the scientific and bibliographic classifications of a particular area : music . 
In doing so , it not only takes a novel perspective on music classification , but also demonstrates the value of studying the relationships between scientific and bibliographic classifications . 
This study is situated within a domain : music , and more precisely , notated Western art music—in which “ notated ” is taken to mean music as text rather than sound , “ art music ” as a particular style of music that is usually defined by excluding popular music or traditional music , and “ Western ” broadly pertaining to the European music tradition . 
Specific scientific classifications of music are compared to bibliographic classifications for music , either directly or through examining secondary literature . 
However , it is not always possible to find direct equivalents between scientific and bibliographic classifications , and there are conceptual difficulties in labeling any bibliographic classification or scientific classification of music as “ the ” classification of a particular topic . 
These conundrums and their impact will be discussed as the article unfolds ; however , to partially mitigate some of these issues , where possible , the scheme analysis will be supplemented with general classificatory discussions from the music and LIS domains . 
The article starts by exploring existing works about scientific classifications . 
It analyzes literature about the interrelations between scientific classification and bibliographic classification , and shows how the study of such connections fits into domain analysis . 
Three types of connections between scientific and bibliographic classifications are considered , starting with similarity . 
Examples of accords and discords in music classification are discussed , highlighting some of the methodological difficulties in ascertaining relationships between scientific and bibliographic classifications in music . 
The idea of causation is then contemplated , including an exploration of how scientific music classifications influence bibliographic classifications and questioning how a classification 's purpose fits into a framework of causation . 
The temporal dimension is then explored and the dynamism of the connections between music scientific and bibliographic classifications is established . 
Finally , the different aspects are brought together in a series of visualizations , including a model that postulates three dimensions of relationships between music scientific and bibliographic classification approaches . 
Therefore , this article analyzes the relationships between scientific and bibliographic classification for music , showing the interlinked and complex nature of these connections . 
This article considers an aspect of knowledge organization that has not previously received much attention : the nature of the relationship between scientific classification and bibliographic classification , in this case , using the specific example of the music domain . 
The need for more exploration of scientific classifications has been clearly announced within KO ; accordingly , this article adds to the literature about the nature of scientific classification for a particular subject area , using a novel focus point . 
The article showed that for music classification , there was no singular scientific/bibliographic classification relationship ; instead , there were a variety of different relationships . 
Three dimensions encapsulated the differing connections between scientific music classification and bibliographic music classification : similarity , causation and temporal aspects . 
Similarity and causation were teased apart , showing how influence does not always lead to similarity and how similarity does not always derive from influence ; the connection between scientific and bibliographic classifications of music were shown to change over time , making the temporal frame a vital part of analysis . 
The methodological limitations of analyzing scientific/bibliographic relationships were discussed , including the problems of “ representative ” classification schemes to use for comparison , and issues in tracing influence . 
The originality of this study lies in positing a complex set of relationships for music classification , and discussing types of connections and dimensions between scientific and bibliographic classification that are seldom discussed , let alone analyzed . 
There are a number of ways this research could be extended . 
This article considered the relationship between scientific and bibliographic classifications for a specific domain : a particular type of music . 
So , this article and its findings could be used as a prototype for studies of other domain classifications , for example , chemistry , art , history , and so on . 
Although generalizations between the domains would not be the intention of such studies , the usefulness of the type of study proposed in this article could see the emergence of a new way of considering scientific classifications . 
Another future extension would consider the subject expertise of those designing and updating bibliographic classifications , in particular how changing trends and attitudes toward subject expertise within LIS might be reflected in bibliographic classifications . 
However , the impact of the study reaches beyond music scientific/bibliographic classification relationships . 
First , the research showed how examining connections between different classification approaches leads to epistemological questions : how do we know the intentions underpinning classification schemes , and where do causation and scheme criticism fit into our knowledge of classification schemes ? 
Second , Hjørland ( 2011 , p. 12 ) says KO would benefit if it were “ better integrated ” with scholars from other fields and KO contained more interdisciplinary research . 
The results for this article showed the fruitfulness of examining music scientific and bibliographic classifications side‐by‐side , and potentially this could bring us closer to a more holistic and interdisciplinary understanding of music classification . 
Finally , there is an impact to the analysis and model beyond knowledge organization . 
Understanding and consciousness of how scientific and bibliographic classifications interact can be fed into the design of future knowledge organization systems . 
This would create systems that better reflect a domain 's metadata and could in turn be used to improve the retrieval of information . 
To discuss the nature of organization of knowledge within a domain , it is first necessary to unpick some terminological entanglements . 
Beghtol ( 2003 ) articulates two types of classification : she uses the terms naïve and professional to differentiate the classifications produced by those working in the domain itself ( “ naïve ” ) and within LIS practice or theory ( “ professional ” ) . 
The term naïve attracted particular dissent from Hjørland and Nicolaisen ( Hjørland & Nicolaisen , 2004 ; Nicolaisen & Hjørland , 2004 ) , as they perceived it as attaching a lesser value to scientific classification ( an interpretation that Beghtol [ 2004 ] refutes ) . 
These are not the only terms that are proposed : For example , both Hjørland ( 2008a ) and Mai ( 2004 ) use the terms scientific and bibliographic . 
However , to complicate matters , there are multiple types of nonbibliographic classifications , of which scientific classification is only one . 
For example , Mai ( 2004 ) distinguishes between scientific and philosophical classifications , both of which refer to a wider brief than LIS ; in addition , Hull ( 1998 ) suggests that there are “ structural ” and “ historical ” classifications , when discussing classification as a philosophical concept . 
This article is going to use the terms scientific classification and bibliographic classification to refer to the two different approaches to classification and the relationship between them . 
One reason for this is that these terms have been used in key works in the literature , such as Hjørland ( 2008a ) and Mai ( 2004 ) . 
So , “ bibliographic classification ” will be used to discuss the classifications designed primarily for the arrangement of bibliographic information , for example schemes such as the Dewey Decimal Classification ( DDC ) and Library of Congress Classification ( LCC ) . 
The term scientific classification will be used to describe a scheme created by those organizing scientific ( or more generally scholarly ) information . 
Bibliographic and scientific classifications are differentiated for the purpose of this article by the main scope and purpose of the classification . 
However , it must be remembered that they are part of a continuum of knowledge organization ; for example , Ørom ( 2003 ) , in his study of art classification , derives three levels of discourse , of which two would loosely fall into our label of “ scientific classification ” and the third within our category of “ bibliographic classification. ” In other words , we are distinguishing two types of classification in this article—scientific and bibliographic—to fully understand how they interact while acknowledging they are in reality different manifestations of the same fundamental thing : the classification of knowledge . 
The study of scientific classifications is an extremely important part of knowledge organization discourse . 
For instance , despite strong differences between Beghtol and Hjørland/Nicolaisen ( Beghtol , 2003 ; Beghtol , 2004 ; Hjørland & Nicolaisen , 2004 ; Nicolaisen & Hjørland , 2004 ) about the nature and terminology of nonbibliographic classification systems , the need to study nonbibliographic classifications is keenly stated by all these authors . 
The desire to study and use scientific classifications has a long pedigree and is discussed in the early 20th century ( Hjørland , 2008c , p. 97 ) . 
For example , Bliss ( 1933 , p. 36 ) writes about what he calls the “ scientific and educational organization of knowledge. ” Even before Bliss ' seminal work on classification , authors such as Cushing Richardson ( 1901 , pp . 
67‐69 ) were comparing “ theoretical ” and “ book ” classifications . 
So it could be seen that Bliss ' ( 1933 , p. 36 ) writings about “ scientific and educational organization of knowledge ” is transfigured in the intervening years into studies of scientific classifications . 
Existing discourse about scientific classifications usually falls into three categories . 
One category is directly concerned with a particular scientific classification scheme ; for example , Hjørland ( 2008b , 2011 ) and Scerri ( 2011 ) write about the Periodic Table as a classification system , and Hjørland ( 2008a ) discusses the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual for Mental Disorders . 
Another category concerns classification within a particular domain ; for instance , Blake ( 2011 ) writes about zoological classification , and Ørom ( 2003 ) writes about art classification . 
The third category is concerned with the theory of scientific classification , usually also including examples drawn from specific domains ; for instance , notable examples include works by Beghtol ( 2003 , 2004 ) , Hjørland and Nicolaisen ( Hjørland & Nicolaisen , 2004 ; Nicolaisen and Hjørland ( 2004 ) , Jacob ( 2010 ) , and Mai ( 2004 , 2011 ) . 
This article falls chiefly into the second category as it is examining scientific classifications of music ; however , although the relationships discussed refer to a specific domain , its novel perspective on analyzing the nature of these relationships , means that this article is also partially positioned in the third category . 
It is important to consider the general framework of the scientific/bibliographic classification interaction . 
Therefore , four theories and vignettes from KO literature are discussed that contextualize the specific discussions about music scientific classification.11 Despite the paradigm shifts discussed in this section , it is acknowledged ( see , e.g. , Hjørland , 2008c ) that different approaches and theoretical orientations co‐exist today , and have co‐existed at different points in KO history . 
( Note that there are other ways in which scientific classification links to bibliographic classification : for example , we could view literary warrant [ Barité , 2017 ] as evidence of a close connection between scientific classification and bibliographic classification . 
There is no space to explore further how literary warrant fits into the ideas discussed in this article . 
) The first idea notes that contemporary classification theorists considered there to be a classification approach in the first part of the 20th century that directly linked scientific and bibliographic classification ; this is ( now ) called the “ traditional approach ” ( Hjørland , 2008c , p. 89 ) . 
For example , Bliss ( 1933 , p. 36 ) writes about what he calls “ library classification ” and how it interacts with organizing knowledge itself , imploring readers to make library classification “ conform to the scientific and educational organization of knowledge. ” Hjørland ( 2008c , p. 89 ) , when writing about the historical development of scientific classification within LIS , summarizes the traditional approach as follows : “ Natural order ➔ Scientific Classification ➔ Library classification ( KO ) ” ( Hjørland , 2008c , p. 89 ) . 
So , the scientific order reflects the natural order—in other words , the way knowledge is ordered in the world without human interference ; then , library classification reflects the scientific classification . 
As this approach directly linked scientific and bibliographic classification , it is illuminating to consider it in more detail . 
First , one type of classification is dominating the other ( the scientific classification ) so the classificatory knowledge moves in one direction only—namely , the direction indicated in the arrows . 
The idea of a common , historical idea of bibliographic classifications depending on scientific ones is also mentioned by Mai ( 2004 , p. 41 ) . 
Second , there is an inferred preferable outcome in the “ traditional approach ” : those LIS schemes that mirror their scientific counterparts are “ correct , ” and those that do not are “ incorrect. ” In other words , once LIS schemes are cast as reflections of scientific classifications , then appropriation of the scientific classification automatically becomes a metric of criticism ( see Lee [ 2015 ] for a description of criticism as part of reception‐based analysis of classification schemes ) . 
Thus , this “ traditional approach ” sees accords between scientific classification and bibliographic classification as “ right , ” and discords as “ wrong. ” However , this traditional approach is considered to be a historical view : Hjørland ( 2011 , p. 19 ) stresses that the idea of LIS schemes following and merely reflecting their scientific counterparts disappeared in the middle of the 20th century . 
The second idea asks whether scientific classification is a method , an approach , or something else entirely . 
Hjørland ( 2011 , p. 19 ) suggests that general developments in classificatory theory during the twentieth century such as facet analysis and user‐centric classification have “ ousted ” LIS schemes as simply reflecting scientific knowledge . 
If bibliographic classifications reflecting their scientific counterparts are defined as a method , then this could be problematic when considering bibliographic schemes that both reflect scientific knowledge and use faceting techniques . 
Such a situation is described later in this article when discussing the facets of music . 
So , this article considers that a bibliographic scheme reflecting scientific classification was an approach rather than a method , and the paradigm shift that ushered in Ranganathan and faceted classification largely replaced this approach . 
The third idea considers scientific classification within the framework of domain analysis . 
The domain‐analytic approach , as developed initially by Hjørland and Albrechtsen , “ is a theory about and approach to LIS and KO ” ( Hjørland , 2017 , p. 437 ) . 
As domain analysis perceives knowledge to be situated within a domain and domain analysis also highlights the importance of subject expertise , it is particularly relevant for this article . 
First , the domain analytic approach also emphasizes the importance of the social organization of knowledge , and is based on a historical , situated view of scientific knowledge . 
Mai ( 2004 , p. 46 ) suggests that in the contemporary paradigm of KO , bibliographic classifications are dominated by the social organization of knowledge . 
For this article 's purpose , this can be seen as bibliographic classification still having a nonbibliographic classification parent ; the scientific classification of the early twentieth century , being in some ways replaced by sociological classification . 
This is important to a study of relationships between classification approaches . 
Second , this article looks at the relationship between scientific and bibliographic classification for a specific domain . 
Although developing a classification within a specific domain is not itself domain analysis ( Albrechtsen , 2015 , p. 559 ) , this article considers the characteristics of the domain ( music ) when considering the scientific classifications . 
Hence , this article arguably uses a domain‐analytic approach to exploring the relationship between scientific and bibliographic classifications for music . 
A fourth point concerns the nature of the connections between different approaches to classification . 
Mai ( 2011 , pp . 
714‐715 ) describes an example of a “ cyclical relationship ” between a bibliographic classification ( in this case DDC ) and scientific classifications of race ( within anthropology and sociological scholarship , among others ) . 
In the process , Mai illuminates how the relationship between bibliographic and scientific classifications might be more nuanced and complex than just a direct , one‐way influence . 
This discussion of a nuanced , multi‐directional relationship suggests that there are intricacies and complexities in relationships between scientific and bibliographic classifications , and there is value on focusing on these relationships . 
Therefore , the focus of this article is to analyze in detail the types and dimensions of relationships for the specific domain of music . 
The first aspect to be considered is similarity . 
Similarity considers whether the scientific and bibliographic classifications resemble each other ; therefore , it considers only the resulting similarity , not the process that created this similarity . 
( The causes of similarity or how the similarity might change over time are considered in subsequent sections . 
) A study ( Lee , 2017 ) of music scientific classification and bibliographic classification relating to three aspects of music—medium , form/genre , function—gives a preliminary set of 26 aspects of music where there is a relationship between scientific and bibliographic classifications . 
So , this relationship of similarity could be categorized into accords and discords—see Table 1 . 
( Note , “ Organology ” is the area of music research devoted to the study of instruments . 
) This table does not aim to be complete ; rather , this categorized list demonstrates the usefulness of breaking down a scientific/bibliographic classification relationship into individual aspects showing how there can be many different relationships within a subject such as Western art music . 
To examine the idea of similarity between scientific and bibliographic music classification , an example is taken from the above list : the facets or building blocks of music . 
Determining the facets of music is surprisingly complex , and a number of sources are used to ascertain a sense of standardized classification : an examination of three example classification schemes ( Coates , 1960 ; Dickinson , 1938 ; Pethes , 1967—these are selected because of their importance to the development of music classification ( Lee , 2017 ) , and it is acknowledged that they are all what might be termed historical schemes ) ; discussions in music classification discourse ; a detailed analysis of three systems of so‐called “ super‐facets ” that proscribe centralized systems of music facets ( Dorfmüller , 1975 ; Elliker , 1994 ; Redfern , 1978 ) . 
Even the super‐facets do not agree which facets exist or the total number of music 's facets . 
However , there is consensus about the most important facets of music . 
Analysis of three example classification schemes ( Coates , 1960 ; Dickinson , 1938 ; Pethes , 1967 ) , the music classification literature ( see , e.g. , works by Lee , 2012 , 2017 ; Smiraglia & Young , 2006 ) demonstrate that the facets of medium and form/genre are particularly important . 
Further , Elliker 's ( 1994 ) important study which systematically analyzes 24 music classification schemes found a typical order of importance for music 's facets : medium is first , form/genre is second , and a nebulous facet of character/function is third . 
So , bibliographic classifications of music generally consider medium , form/genre and function to be the three most important facets of music . 
Examining the music domain 's ideas of building blocks for music shows that there are difficulties in even locating music scientific classification schemes for most areas of music ( with musical instruments being an exception ) . 
Because of the limitations of finding a broad enough music scientific classification to ascertain the basic building blocks ( or facets ) , an alternative is used , namely implicit discussions about classification from the domain of music . 
Extracts from a treatise on musicology by the composer Busoni ( 1957 ) are used , which discusses how music can be broken down into a series of attributes and debates about the perimeters of these attributes . 
Busoni ( 1957 , p. 1 ) states what he considers to be the traditional constituents of music according to music philosophers and theorists : “ purpose , ” “ form , ” and “ sound‐medium. ” Busoni ( 1957 ) not only offers a few subdivisions for these but also offers examples , which in a faceted world , could be considered to be equivalent of examples of the facets ' foci . 
A summary of Busoni 's ( 1957 ) facets using Busoni 's terminology is presented in Table 2 , alongside the facets ' corresponding subdivisions and examples . 
This triumvirate of elements could be relabeled using bibliographic classification terminology : character/function , form/genre , and medium . 
So , comparing the scientific and bibliographic classification schemes and/or discussions shows an accord between the most important facets of music for bibliographic classification and the traditional building blocks in the music domain ( according to one theorist ) . 
Analyzing this example of an accord is insightful , as it raises a number of questions and issues about methodology and the plurality of classifications . 
Although this facets example attempted to ascertain a consensual position on bibliographic classification of music by using a mixture of super‐facets , analysis of classification discourse , and analysis of various bibliographic classification schemes , it still only represents a generalization of bibliographic music classification . 
Amongst other issues , the fluctuating paradigms of KO suggest that bibliographic classifications will change over time ; therefore , what is being discussed is a consensus that may have more or less weight at different times in classification history , and is not the bibliographic classification of music , just our best estimate and a generalization . 
Conversely , Busoni 's ideas were given as a univocal account of music scientific classification ; in other words , only one scientific classification was used . 
Busoni ( 1957 ) implied a consensual view at a particular moment in time , which he was attempting to modernize . 
( Note that different subject areas have differences in the plurality of their scientific classifications ; if we were discussing , say , chemistry , there would be a different weight attached to a single view of a chemistry scientific classification than for music . 
) So , when considering accord , discord and the other aspects under consideration for music classification , we are really only discussing the interactions between a particular scheme or consensus of classification ideas , and , another scheme or consensus of classification ideas . 
The antonymic relationship to an accord between a scientific classification and the equivalent bibliographic classification is the discord ; so , a discord occurs when the music bibliographic classification does not follow the organization of knowledge as seen in the domain . 
To discuss discords further , an example from the medium facet is used : vocal/instrumental categorization . 
In a study of vocal/instrumental categorization , Lee and Robinson ( 2018 , p. 266 ) found that 14 out of 19 classification schemes for music had a primary categorization into vocal and instrumental categories , with some categorization also seen in four out of five of the remaining schemes . 
Therefore , these bibliographic classifications show a strong adherence to dividing musical medium between vocal and instrumental . 
Again , this offers a consensus approach , while acknowledging that each specific bibliographic scheme acts slightly differently . 
Similar to the accord example above , determining the music domain 's organization of knowledge is not straightforward , and had to be reconstructed from musicological sources and discourse . 
Lee ( 2017 ) used ideas from musical aesthetics that considers text and concert music , and an analysis of 25 examples of composer worklists from the music encyclopedia Grove Music Online ( 2016 ) , to determine whether the vocal/instrumental categorization exists in the music domain . 
The exploration found that although the vocal/instrumental categorization is indeed found in the music domain , it is somewhat equivocal ( Lee , 2017 ) : in certain situations and for certain temporal‐stylistic time periods , the indicators of such a divide are present , whereas for others , the categorization becomes blurred or even nonexistent . 
