A public health article published in 2004 ( Godlee et al. , 2004 ) proposed that the World Health Organization adopt a focal position towards attaining the goal of “ Health Information for All ” by 2015 . 
This is yet to be achieved , as substantiated by commonplace knowledge as well as research reviews ( Finch et al. , 2013 ; Proaño et al. , 2016 ) . 
Among most strategies proposed for achieving universal access , information cycles and communities of practice are given equal prominence as clinical initiatives , national policies , and interdisciplinary networks ( Godlee et al. , 2004 ) . 
More recently , the importance of a federated health information architecture for addressing diverse information needs and enabling data‐based decision making has been postulated ( Kumar et al. , 2018 ) . 
The dispersion of healthcare information across researchers , publishers , reviewers , healthcare professionals , policymakers as well as patients , caregivers , and other health information consumers form the primary information cycle with high potential to increase relevance and reliability of information as well as build skills , understanding , and ownership . 
A strong emphasis is put on sustainability and inclusivity of such information cycles . 
In direct contrast , the prevalence and popularity of online support groups ( OSGs ) is a compelling indication that autonomous , self‐standing communities are responding to their own information needs by partaking in online conversations to seek , provide , and exchange healthcare information . 
In the absence of institutional support for these communities and their information cycles , it is pertinent to focus on research endeavors that contribute towards an enhanced information retrieval experience for health information consumers . 
From a clinical perspective , the rise of patient‐centered care ( PCC ) models postulate the increasingly important role of healthcare information for patient empowerment . 
PCC is defined as care that is “ respectful of and responsive to individual patient preferences , needs , and values , and ensuring that patient values guide all clinical decisions ” ( Institute of Medicine , 2001 , p. 3 ) . 
PCC models transcend traditional boundaries that separate patients and their families from clinical contexts . 
As highlighted by Epstein et al . 
( 2010 ) and Bechtel and Ness , ( 2010 ) , PCC aims to achieve a state of shared information , shared deliberation , and shared mind . 
Information sharing should occur across all stakeholders , clinicians , groups of patients , caregivers , and family members . 
Most OSGs are structured as topics ( or threads ) , with each topic starting with a question , comment , or an experience . 
Users respond to such threads and thereby create a conversation . 
Common topics and corresponding conversations are grouped together and indexed as free text . 
Subsequent visitors ( end users ) begin information perusal with a simple search query on this free‐text index . 
A single search query is inadequate to capture all information expectations of an end user . 
A dilemma further complicated by the voluminous results generated by such a query . 
Simplicity of the search query leads to irrelevant results ( Lee et al. , 2014 ) . 
Voluminous results that lack domain‐specific structure lead to unreliable and/or ambiguous information . 
An OSG that retrieves irrelevant and unreliable information , such as contradictory demographics or disease settings , is an inefficacious and harmful resource to end users . 
Therefore , it is imperative to improve relevance , reliability , and usefulness of information retrieved from OSGs . 
A wealth of implicit information encapsulated within the OSG 's unstructured text data can be extracted to fulfil this purpose . 
In this article , we propose an approach that generates this knowledge extraction layer , which then interposes an investigable and extensible structure on hitherto unstructured OSG text . 
Contributions : Extend and evaluate existing text‐mining techniques to retrieve age , gender , and narrative from OSG text . 
Design and develop a layer for extraction of knowledge from OSGs by integrating the above techniques with domain ontologies . 
Evaluate relevance , reliability , and demonstrate the usefulness of the knowledge extraction layer using an active OSG containing 800,000 posts by 72,066 participants . 
The rest of the article is organized as follows . 
The following section discusses related work , followed by a section introducing the proposed text‐mining approach . 
The next section reports on an experiment conducted on a current and active OSG with 800,000 posts and a demonstration of information retrieval for health information consumers and OSG analytics for healthcare researchers . 
The next section evaluates the three knowledge extraction modules developed in this work . 
A conclusion and a discussion of future work ends the article . 
Tanis ( 2008 ) presented six general motives for information seekers on OSGs : to seek information , seek emotional support , inclusion , support others , pass time , and convenience . 
The study indicates active participation is a key predictor of better coping with the medical condition . 
Improved relevance and reliability of retrieved information further supports the role of an OSG in managing a medical condition . 
Oh ( 2012 ) examined factors that motivate information providers to share knowledge and information on OSGs . 
Altruism , enjoyment , and efficacy were key motivators for those responding to information seekers . 
Improved relevance and reliability has been noted in this study as further encouragement for continuous participation of information providers . 
A further study examined the sustained use of OSGs for the attainment of long‐term health benefits ( Zhang , 2015 ) . 
Emotional needs such as individuality , small group interactions , respectful treatment , and decision‐making awareness aided sustained use of the OSG . 
As proposed in this article , personalization of information retrieval leads to individuality and thereby continuous use of OSGs for the achievement of such long‐term goals . 
Gupta et al . 
( 2014 ) presented a method for the identification of medical entity types in OSGs . 
They demonstrated performance improvements in the extraction of drug and treatment types and symptoms and condition information from two OSGs based on the expansion of medical dictionaries . 
Lexico‐syntactic patterns are used to extract new entities not found in seed dictionaries , abbreviated terms , and spelling errors . 
This method was tested on two OSGs : Asthman OSG and ENT OSG , consisting 39,137 and 215,123 sentences , respectively . 
In evaluation , it outperformed MetaMap , OBA , and a CRF classifier ( Gupta et al. , 2014 ) . 
Tang et al . 
( 2013 ) developed a hybrid clinical temporal information extraction system to derive temporal expressions and temporal relations from hospital discharge summaries . 
The three components of the system , event extraction , temporal expression extraction , and temporal relation extraction , used both rule‐based and machine learning ( classification ) approaches for extraction . 
Classification was based on a data set containing 310 clinic notes ; 190 were used as the training set and the remainder for testing . 
Cho et al . 
( 2013 ) proposed the use of OSG text for Comparative Effectiveness Research ( CER ) . 
CER is defined as the generation and synthesis of evidence that compares the benefits and harms of different prevention and treatment methods ( Cho et al. , 2013 ) . 
They proposed demographic information extraction from OSG text as an alternative to the traditional approaches of observational studies and randomized clinical trials . 
The authors report the proposed approach is capable of extracting more than 30 % of demographic ( age and gender ) information . 
Experiments were conducted on the topics of breast cancer ( 40,996 posts ) and heart disease ( 98,644 posts ) in MedHelp OSG . 
Ku et al . 
( 2014 ) proposed a text‐mining framework to determine self‐disclosing health information with unusual messages on OSGs . 
Their motivation was to inform public health agencies to reallocate resources and deliver services through social media . 
The framework comprised three components : data acquisition , feature generation , and text representation ; and classification . 
Two major HIV/AIDS OSGs ( 5,500 posts ) in Taiwan were used to demonstrate its feasibility . 
In summary , information seekers , information providers , and long‐term end users alike advocate relevance and reliability of retrieved information for effective and sustained OSG use . 
Moreover , scale is an essential element in crowdsourcing . 
As noted above , hitherto research endeavors on information retrieval from OSGs have only focused on small‐scale OSGs . 
In this context , it is important to note that our approach has been trialed on a voluminous OSG consisting 800,000 posts with demonstrable accuracy and value . 
It is appropriate to start this section with an illustrative comparison ( Figure 1 ) of the existing method for information retrieval from OSGs and the proposed knowledge extraction based structure . 
( a ) Existing and ( b ) the proposed methods of information retrieval from OSGs . 
The existing method requires end users to perform a full text search within the posts of the OSG or browse through a selected topic . 
OSGs that provide full‐text search , index terms found in each post ( except stop‐words ) so that they are searchable . 
Full‐text search is demonstrated below using an example query “ I 'm a 40 year old woman taking Nexium for heartburn. ” Tokenize the query into words ( I , m , a , 40 , year , old , woman , taking , Nexium , for , heartburn ) . 
Remove stop‐words and stem‐words to their root form ( 40 , year , old , woman , take , Nexium , heartburn ) . 
Search the OSG database for the posts that have any of these words . 
Determine a relevance score for each identified post by aggregating tf‐idf scores of each matching word ( tf‐idf is a statistical measure of how important a word is to a document in a collection of documents ) . 
Present the top n results with the highest relevance score . 
The top n results consist of posts that contain several matching words in the end user query . 
However , it does not recognize that heartburn is a symptom , Nexium is a medication , and the end user is interested in posts that mention both of these words . 
In addition , it does not recognize that 40 is an age mention and woman is a gender mention . 
This highlights the two key issues of the existing full‐text search . 
Low relevance : Demographics of the end user ( age and gender mentions in the query ) are disregarded . 
Relevant posts by authors of the same gender and age group are overlooked . 
Low reliability : The importance of certain terms ( such as symptom or medication mentions ) are disregarded . 
These terms introduce context to a search and thereby are crucial for reliability . 
The existing method based on full‐text search leads to low relevance and low reliability , mainly because it 's limited to matching terms in the query to the indexed post without consideration for the context introduced by these terms . 
As illustrated in Figure 1b , the proposed method overcomes these issues by introducing a knowledge extraction layer that structures OSG posts and queries based on extracted knowledge . 
The same query is handled by the proposed method as follows : Structure the query by extracting context based on text‐mining techniques ( { symptom‐ heartburn , medication‐ Nexium , age‐ 40 , gender‐ female } ) Match extracted context to the structured knowledge in OSG posts using different criteria ( for instance , symptoms , medication , gender , and age group ) Distinguish between posts narrated as advice and experience from retrieved results This approach returns relevant and reliable results compared to the full‐text search . 
High relevance : N ormalized information ( for instance , woman ‐ > female and 40 ‐ > 35–45 age group ) increases the retrieval of posts relevant to the end user . 
High reliability : S trict matching criteria is followed on contextual information to filter out unreliable results ( for instance , must match symptoms and medications ) . 
Figure 2 presents the expanded illustration of the proposed method , which shows the proposed knowledge extraction layer in more detail . 
The Proposed method with the extensible knowledge extraction layer . 
The proposed knowledge extraction layer is extensible , and thus can be enhanced with additional knowledge extraction modules ( for instance , identify ethnicity , family history , and so on ) . 
However , for this work we have limited this layer to extract age , gender , narrative type , and medical information mentioned in OSG posts . 
Note that narrative type aims to distinguish between posts containing experience and advice . 
The rest of this section describes the knowledge extraction modules : narrative type , age , gender , and medical concepts ( symptoms/medications ) . 
As OSGs are used to seek , provide , and exchange information ( Zhang , 2015 ) , individuals tend to share similar experiences and also provide advice based on their own experience . 
In past work , Liu et al . 
( 2015 ) and Park et al . 
( 2010 ) extracted sentences that express patient experience using a classifier trained on different linguistic features . 
However , such methods are still in their early stages of development , as experience extraction is a relatively new area of research . 
In this work , we assume that each post can be broadly categorized as expressing experience or providing advice . 
We further subdivide expressions of experience as expression of one 's own experience or the expression of a third‐party experience ( often family member , close relative , or a friend ) . 
Thereby , posts are grouped into three categories ( i ) experience : first‐person , ( ii ) experience : second‐person , and ( iii ) advice For this categorization , we look at nouns and pronouns that mention humans to decide the narrative type . 
The rationale for this approach is that different types of nouns and pronouns are employed in different narrative types . 
For example , the first column of Table 1 shows three sample posts taken from an OSG . 
The first post is a patient expressing his experience ; therefore , the majority of the human mentions are first‐person pronouns . 
In the second post a child is expressing about his mother , so there is human mention noun “ mother ” and third person pronoun “ she. ” The last post is a piece of advice given by the author to someone else , so there are significant number of second‐person pronoun “ you ” present in that post . 
My doctor … yesterday . 
He … daily . 
I took it … and … I felt … Is this normal … ? 
I was … because … I have n't … and I was … with my fiancée . 
I got paranoid about her … even though I knew … she … I ‐ > 7 Doctor ‐ > 2 Fiancée ‐ > 2 My mother is diagnosed … She is suffering with … I know that … her heart . 
An endocrinologist suggested her to … Also , he recommended her to … But now she had … She is suffering … My mother is diagnosed …  is suffering with … I know …  heart . 
An endocrinologist suggested  to … Also ,  recommended  to … But now  had …  is suffering … Mother ‐ > 5 Endocrinologist‐ > 2 I‐ > 1 Prominent human mention noun is you , thus the narrative type is advice However , posts sometimes contain several nouns and pronouns ; for example , patients expressing her/his experience might mention their family history using words such as “ mother ” and third‐person pronouns like “ her. ” Moreover , third‐person pronouns are often used to mention other people as well ( for instance , I went to see a GP and s/he prescribed ) . 
In order to resolve these issues , we first employed pronoun resolution tools to identify their antecedents . 
We first attempted JavaRAP tool ( Qiu , Kan , & Chua , 2004 ) , which implements an algorithm presented by Lappin and Leass ( 1994 ) . 
However , this approach relies on parsing text to identify its structural elements and grammatical roles . 
We found this approach is less effective for OSG posts , as they rarely conform to rules of formal grammar . 
Therefore , we selected CogNIAC ( Baldwin , 1997 ) , a rule‐based pronoun resolution algorithm that uses a simple set of rules to resolve pronouns . 
For our task we did a partial implementation of CogNIAC to resolve male and female pronouns . 
Column 2 of Table 1 presents posts with resolved pronouns . 
It should be noted that this process has made the primary human mentions more evident by resolving the pronouns to its relevant noun . 
Column 3 of Table 1 shows the prominent human mention noun of sample posts , which are used to determine the narrative type ( column 4 ) . 
Age is an important feature for patient profiling because medical information such as symptoms are interpreted differently for different age groups . 
Patients often mention their age within the text of the OSG post . 
However , such mentions are highly diverse and often expressed using shortened forms of English words . 
Some sample age mentions are shown in Column 1 of Table 2 . 
Also , they need to be differentiated from other number mentions such as duration , dose , weight , and so on Previous literature on age extraction from OSGs are limited mainly due to its challenging nature . 
Yang et al . 
