By formulating it as an assemblage , the library is judged in relation to the connections made to other assemblages . 
Because the connections change over time the focus , or rather the several focuses , will change from time to time , and the risk of being dominated by a few strong external voices will lessen . 
Each assemblage contains norms and rules . 
In Deleuze 's analysis of assemblages , we are not to be limited by the ones that already exist – and the rules and laws that prevail there . 
We have the ability to maneuver around the regulations that are set up , the ability to be creative . 
This ability paves the way for change ( Gerolami , 2015 , p. 169 ) . 
Ronald Day and Andrew Lau argue that , from a Deleuzian perspective , one of the tasks of an information provider is to foster personal and social change ( 2010 , p.110 ) . 
Thus , the ability to effect radical change lies within the library institution . 
I find the readiness for radical change and creativity within the existing limits refreshing in this theoretical approach . 
For libraries , it is important to create new projects and concepts , or to use old concepts in new ways ( Gerolami , 2015 , p. 170 ) . 
Next , a newly created word , with potential for radical change from within , is formulated . 
Furthermore , there is a presentation of how it can gain legitimacy within the profession . 
Deleuze and Guattari construct many new concepts in order to change and develop our understanding of the world , and to indicate how we can contribute to making it different . 
Such a focus on the force of language fits well , as mentioned above , with Mouffe 's , who values the production of counter‐hegemonic articulations . 
A new word is proposed here : in order to explore what happens when , instead of talking about the library as a noun , we speak of it as a verb , to librarize . 
This proposition was first formulated in Swedish where the noun , with Latin and Greek etymology , is “ bibliotek , ” and when transformed into a verb `` att “ biblioteka. ” 33 The Swedish word for library is bibliotek , thus the verb “ to librarize ” is a translation from the Swedish att biblioteka , a proposition I presented in the second report mentioned above ( Rivano Eckerdal 2016 ) . 
Understanding of library as a verb is also in line with Mouffe 's proposition that democracy is a never‐ending process ( 2013 , p. 132 ) : The proposal involves moving our attention from a constant state , which may be threatened and must be defended , to a continuous production , enactment and becoming ( Deleuze & Guattari , 2004 , p. 279 ) . 
Some consequences of this understanding will be elaborated further . 
It is suggested here that this proposition opens up possibilities to grasp the often difficult circumstances that libraries and librarians are facing and approach these in a creative and proactive way . 
However , it is not assumed that difficulties are easily overcome . 
Neither is it suggested that solving difficulties depends on how individuals grasp them . 
On the contrary as a counter‐hegemonic articulation the verbification of the library recognizes the power that lies in words . 
This counter‐hegemonic articulation may be a way for librarians to , while recognizing change as part of their professional identity , focus on the debate of which change is most beneficial for the institution . 
If the library is seen as an institution and activities in constant production , performing , enactment or becoming ; that is , as a verb , it means that the librarian 's identity is understood as an ongoing enactment or as a doing of the library . 
The change that the librarians expressed as problematic is then recast as constitutive . 
If the institution is understood as a continuous doing , it is assumed that there are various participants in the performance , that is , the elements already described above . 
The institution requires a diversified range of elements , including but not limited to humans . 
On such an understanding , it seems that the difference between professional and nonprofessional practitioners , “ users , ” is lost or might even be rejected . 
In librarizing , the practitioners enact the library whether they get paid for it or not and no matter what education they have . 
Thus , what I understand as one of the problems emanating from understanding the libraries as a noun lives on . 
When adopting a posthumanistic perspective , two questions arise : Can it be argued that it is just librarians who have the right knowledge and skills to perform a library , to librarize ? 
And if so , how ? 
A shortcoming in Gerolami 's ( 2015 ) analysis is that she does not discuss how to deal with situations in which different views collide on how the performance should be enacted or what connections are crucial for libraries and librarians to work with . 
I argue that , with an emphasis on the performance of a library , there follows an equally important aspect of this performance that is a crucial part of doing a library , librarizing . 
What should be the content of librarizing ? 
Here we can turn to plural agonistics and the emphasis that Mouffe puts on the role that democratic institutions play , and how they contribute to democracy by transforming enemies into adversaries who can engage in agonistic struggles within the institutions . 
How the public library should be performed is an example of an important debate for democracy . 
In the study of Ängelholm referred to above , the planned but not implemented organizational change at the library shook several employees ' understanding of the library , and thus the librarian profession , to their foundations . 
One of the librarians speaks about libraries and their role , and how working on the project has led to struggling with how to deal with the twin faces of librarianship ( the extrovert and the more traditional , with a focus on preservation ) : And that is perhaps what I have been thinking about a little : How to unite those two . 
And perhaps modernise a library . 
My dream about a library , or this workplace or the library idea , is that it should be so attractive that people want to come here . 
I do n't mean this particular building , but what we stand for . 
( Conversation 4/9 2015 ) And that is perhaps what I have been thinking about a little : How to unite those two . 
And perhaps modernise a library . 
My dream about a library , or this workplace or the library idea , is that it should be so attractive that people want to come here . 
I do n't mean this particular building , but what we stand for . 
( Conversation 4/9 2015 ) I argue that the different conceptualizations of how the library should be performed , as expressed by this librarian , are central . 
In this study , it emerged that , over time , or in relation to different tasks , conceptualizations differ both between and within librarians . 
One librarian in Ängelholm changed view on the project during the process , making the reflection that : “ Yes , I think that I 'm actually quite open to the changes ! 
” Instead of understanding this ambivalence as negative , the proposed framework provides a way to view it as part of the professional performance in which change is a constant . 
Conceptions about libraries and librarianship concern organizational and professional identities . 
In the study , it was observed that the staff held a variety of understandings about their profession and the institution they worked in . 
Schultz Nybacka discusses this as a parallel development of tradition and innovation ( 2013 , p. 81 ) . 
One of the librarians in Ängelholm expressed how important it was to be forced to think in new ways , and then put into words the dynamic between tradition and renewal in the profession ; that is , you are not forced to do something that you embrace . 
There was an initial resistance but once the threshold was crossed , this librarian appreciated the changes that it had led to . 
To work in this dynamic and to change your understanding , or perhaps to accommodate several understandings simultaneously , causes strain . 
On the other hand , the changes were also appreciated as rewarding by several members of the staff that I met . 
There is a paradox related to their work , to which they need to relate , a process that can be both painful and full of joy . 
The framework is proposed as a way for librarians involved in this constant struggle to view it in a productive way . 
Differences in understandings can be viewed as advantages and assets , and should be given space in discussions among librarians . 
These differences can be framed in agonistic terms as expressions of how librarians are also part of other collective identities , things that allow them to adopt different stances from which to engage in dialogue . 
Conversations between adversaries are an important part of democracy as a process . 
Such agonistic struggles are “ the very condition of a vibrant democracy ” ( Mouffe , 2013 , p.7 ) . 
The suggestion to understand library as a verb is proposed as one strategy to be used as part of a counter hegemonic approach . 
The preamble to the Swedish Library Act states that the libraries in the public library system shall promote the development of a democratic society by contributing to the transfer of knowledge and the free formation of opinions ( SFS 2013:801 , Section 2 ) . 
Librarians have therefore a particularly important societal role to play in providing opportunities for agonistic struggles ( Rivano Eckerdal , 2017 ) . 
