Gilles Deleuze and Félix Guattari are main proponents of the posthumanist or ontological shift in which the focus is not on how the world is , but how it is constantly and unceasingly produced or enacted ( Åsberg , Hultman , & Lee , 2012 p. 31–32 ) . 
According to this theoretical position , and in contrast to much of the research within the critical tradition , change is inevitable . 
Change is how the world happens and how it is understood . 
Deleuze and Guattari ( 2004 ) criticize our culture and much of its philosophical tradition for understanding the world as binary , conveyed in representations of a subject describing objects in the real world ( p. 3–4 ) . 
This hierarchical understanding of the world as a tree ( p. 18 ) is problematic as it differentiates between root and branches , between a distinct beginning and an end , between the low and the high . 
The authors suggest instead an understanding of the world as a rhizome ( p. 5 ) . 
We 're tired of trees . 
We should stop believing in trees , roots , and radicles . 
They 've made us suffer too much . 
All of arborescent culture is founded on them , from biology to linguistics . 
Nothing is beautiful or loving or political aside from underground stems and aerial roots , adventitious growths and rhizomes . 
( Deleuze & Guattari , 2004 , p. 15 ) . 
We 're tired of trees . 
We should stop believing in trees , roots , and radicles . 
They 've made us suffer too much . 
All of arborescent culture is founded on them , from biology to linguistics . 
Nothing is beautiful or loving or political aside from underground stems and aerial roots , adventitious growths and rhizomes . 
( Deleuze & Guattari , 2004 , p. 15 ) . 
The rhizome is not presented as a metaphor , which would entail that the representation is carried further , but as a metamorphose ( Colebrook , 2002 , p. 67 ; Deleuze & Guattari , 1986 , p. 22 ) . 
The rhizome can “ be connected to anything other , and must be ” ( Deleuze & Guattari , 2004 , p. 5 ) , it always has multiple entryways , and it has to do with performance ( ibid. , p. 12 ) . 
“ A rhizome has no beginning or end ; it is always in the middle , between things , interbeing , intermezzo ” ( ibid. , p. 26 ) . 
The world is an ongoing flow of becoming . 
We should therefore move from an interest in what we are to an interest in becoming ( Colebrook , 2002 , p. xx‐xxi ) . 
The way in which Deleuze and Guattari encourage readers to carry their concepts further ( 2004 , p. 26 ) , and how they portray flight lines ( p. 252 ) and treason as productive , is an invitation that I acknowledge . 
The odd coupling of theories implied in the title of this section is suggested . 
The combination is not unproblematic . 
Mouffe has objected to how Deleuzian vocabulary has been adopted ( 2005a , p. 109–115 ; 2013 , p. 66–71 ) . 
But it is not the vocabulary itself that she opposes ( 2005a , p. 112 ) . 
An agonistic perspective strongly emphasizes the power relations that shape the social . 
Every order is the temporary and precarious articulation of contingent practices . 
The frontier between the social and the political is essentially unstable and requires constant displacements and renegotiations between social agents . 
Things could always be otherwise and therefore every order is predicated on the exclusion of other possibilities ( Mouffe , 2005b , p. 18 ) . 
Every order is the temporary and precarious articulation of contingent practices . 
The frontier between the social and the political is essentially unstable and requires constant displacements and renegotiations between social agents . 
Things could always be otherwise and therefore every order is predicated on the exclusion of other possibilities ( Mouffe , 2005b , p. 18 ) . 
Rather than stressing power , Deleuze and Guattari emphasize desire , understood in a positive way , as productive and creative energy ( Colebrook , 2002 , p. xv ) . 
Despite their positive presentation of life as desire , “ a flow of forces that produces relations ” ( ibid. , p. xvii ) , and Mouffe 's phrasing her understanding of plurality as radical negativity , I would argue that their combination is both possible and fruitful . 
Mouffe ( 2013 , p.130 ; 2005b , p. 18 ) shares the antiessentialist ontological position found in the writings of Deleuze and Guattari , and all three also share an insistence on and awareness of how language contributes to shaping the world . 
Changes in and the development of public libraries have been analysed by means of institutional theory in several studies ( e.g. , Audunson , 1999 ; Hansson , 2006 ; Kann‐Christensen , 2009 ; Evjen , 2015 ; Schultz Nybacka , 2013 ) . 
Institutional theory allows for understanding changes in a profession , such as librarianship , in relation to the surrounding community . 
Joacim Hansson suggests that the theory can be used to analyse the mutual influence exerted by society and public libraries ( 2006 , p. 551 ) . 
In response to pressures or forces , professions adapt to meet challenges and retain legitimacy in relation to other institutions and professions ( DiMaggio & Powell , 1983 ) . 
Norms and regulations are necessary for understanding how professional practices are to be enacted and how professional conceptions within a profession stabilize . 
Ragnar Audunson ( 1999 ) discusses how norms within the librarian profession work in relation to internally or externally originated changes . 
He shows that changes are often externally driven and depend on shifts in the environment . 
Furthermore , whether changes are understood or not by staff depend on how well the changes are considered to fit with key norms and values in the profession . 
Thus , professional norms serve as a filter . 
Changes in the environment need to be adapted to a language consistent with established norms in the field so that their presentations do not lead to major conflicts ( ibid. , p. 547 ) . 
Differing understandings need not be negative . 
To the contrary , they can be valuable , and even viewed as a part of the profession ( Schultz Nybacka , 2013 ) . 
Pamela Schultz Nybacka , in her study of a competence development project at the county library in Stockholm , Sweden , puts it like this : “ libraries act in a dynamic field of force and handle dual realities simultaneously . 
It is therefore not a question of a movement from tradition to innovation , but about a parallel development of tradition and innovation ” ( ibid . 
p. 81 [ Author 's translation ] ) . 
In his discussion of the future of libraries and librarianship , Hansson states : “ public libraries have gone from being value‐based professionally driven institutions to service institutions legitimized by the demands and perceived expectations of clients and users ” ( 2015 , p. 11 ) . 
In Hansson 's analysis , the dynamics are not emphasized , but instead the values are regarded as having shifted in one direction , that is , towards change . 
NPM has been a driving force in that change . 
These earlier studies provide valuable knowledge for understanding change in organizations and the people working in them . 
Hansson raises the possibility of adopting institutional theory to analyze not only how libraries respond to changes in society , but also how libraries can influence them ( 2006 , p. 551 ) . 
Nevertheless , in the analysis put forward there is often an emphasis on how libraries and librarians face pressures forcing them to adapt , and a focus on changes in the societal climate that make it increasingly difficult for culture to play a role except in relation to financial gain . 
The library is conveyed as a solid institution , changing only when threatened . 
Libraries and librarians risk being described both by others and themselves as an organization and a profession constantly defending themselves against external threats . 
The work can then come across as defensive , a response whenever a large external pressure is identified . 
Emphasis is then put on expressing oneself in relation to , and acting against , these external pressures . 
The external pressures are nowadays typically the effects of market economy tendencies of various kinds . 
Not to diminish the challenges that such tendencies mean for public libraries , for example , but in order to offer another form of resistance , I propose an addition to the analysis : a combination of agonistic theory and a posthumanistic approach . 
Agonistic theory has been proposed by Hansson ( 2010 ) as fruitful for library and information studies , and used in one study to suggest a more prominent political role for public libraries ( 2011 ) . 
John M. Budd includes Mouffe 's agonistic democracy in his discussion of various understandings of democracy , but disagrees with her on her critique of deliberative democracy ( 2008 , p. 165‐6 ) . 
The combination suggested here provides a frame for an analysis that involves the political role of libraries and sharpens the ability proactively to be a part of and influence society . 
Agonistic theory entails a radical understanding of democracy in which institutions like libraries are important in offering spaces for adversaries to meet in dialogue ( Mouffe , 2013 ) . 
Social order offers some people the possibility to be in power at the expense of others . 
The order could always be different ( Mouffe 2005a. , p. 18 ; 2013 , p. 131 ) . 
Difference and conflict are fundamental – the ineradicability of antagonism ( 2005a , p. 19 ; 2013 , p. 130 ) – which makes the ordering of conflicts into debates between adversaries the way to make democracy ( 2013 , p.7 ; 2005a , p. 52 ) perceived as an ongoing process ( 2013 , p. 132 ) . 
As a philosopher , Deleuze views himself as an active participant in the transforming of life ( Colebrook , 2002 , p. xvii ) . 
A philosopher 's task , for him , is to problematize our‐taken‐for‐granted ideas of the world , not least by finding new concepts to expand our “ thinking. ” Thinking is not separate from but part of life ( ibid. , p. xix ) . 
His ideas are therefore compatible with agonistic pluralism through their shared insistence on the force that articulations exert on us , and the urge to challenge them in what Mouffe calls counter‐hegemonic articulations . 
The proposed combination enables a critical but not dystopian analysis . 
I would therefore suggest that actions and articulations aimed at provoking or challenging the existing order could be labelled radical change . 
Natasha Gerolami ( 2015 ) suggests that Deleuze 's understanding of institutions is valuable to library and information studies , as it highlights the library 's social role and its importance . 
Institutions are creative and positive instances , and therefore libraries should be understood as productive places where subjects are created ( Gerolami , p. 168 ) . 
The proposal presents an opportunity to understand a development of libraries , focused on creativity , not one linked to economy . 
Libraries are formulated as creative and productive institutions ( cf . 
Carlsson , 2013 ) , but not in a monetary sense . 
This , I argue , provides a way to resist the neoliberal hegemony of our times by attempting to formulate a counter‐hegemony . 
As already mentioned , a draft of the presented framework was presented in an analysis of an empirical study about improvement projects in two public libraries in Sweden ( Rivano Eckerdal , 2016 ) . 
The projects are briefly described here , and examples from the study are given to elucidate how the framework may contribute to understand the present situation faced by the public libraries and librarians working there . 
The two projects are in no way extraordinary or innovative . 
But what was salient in the study was a strongly felt and even troublesome ambivalence , expressed by many of the librarians towards change in the library and hence in their own profession . 
The framework is a proposal for understanding change as creative and productive . 
The situations presented are therefore expected to be familiar to many librarians . 
The suggestion about how to conceptualize them is , on the other hand , innovative and literally extraordinary . 
In Scania , the southernmost region of Sweden , the regional Culture Committee announced a call for promoting public libraries to develop into culture centres . 
Two of the libraries that got funding for projects on responding to this call , Arlöv and Ängelholm , have been subjected to study by the author during two time periods ( 2012–2013 ; 2014–2016 ) .11 The studies have resulted in two reports in Swedish ( Rivano Eckerdal , 2013 ; 2016 ) . 
The studies received funding from the Culture Committee in Region Skane ( Scania ) . 
This article is a further development of the analysis presented in the second report ( 2016 ) . 
The examples are taken from the second period , the aim being to look into whether and how experiences and implications from the projects ( initiated during the first period ) lived on in ordinary activities at the libraries . 
The studies followed an ethnographic approach , and included a variety of methods . 
The analysis is based on conversations , interviews , observations , e‐mail correspondence , field notes and questionnaires ( Denzin & Lincoln , 2000 ; Czarniawska , 2007 ; Hahn & Inhorn , 2009 ) . 
Arlöv is a municipality in Scania , close to Malmö , the third largest city in Sweden . 
Arlöv 's library sought funding for the project The library as a cultural center for all . 
The project was conducted at the main library in the municipality . 
The objective of the project was to address a problem identified by the staff , namely that the activities in their program reached too few of the large number of immigrants residing in the municipality . 
The staff wanted to reach a larger part of the community by creating new programs relevant to these groups and to find new forms to market the programs . 
A reference group was formed by contacting visitors from different language groups . 
To reach people of various ages , including families with small children , the Saturdays at the library project was developed . 
Saturdays at the library has been kept in the regular program since then . 
It is a combination of programs on one and the same Saturday—an opening of an exhibition , a concert or show , and an activity for children—and it is held five to six times a year . 
Two librarians worked with various parts of the project as a part of their regular work tasks and , once the project was over , all the staff were involved . 
Ängelholm is a municipality in the northeast part of Scania . 
In Ängelholm municipality the idea of a culture center had existed for some years , when the local council in spring 2012 decided to rebuild the main library into a culture center . 
Project funding was sought from the county to develop the library in this direction . 
Shortly thereafter , the local council made a new decision , which implied changes to the project . 
The former courthouse , next door to the library , was rented out to house the Municipal Art School for Children . 
The political decision led to a reformulation of the culture center . 
Now the culture center was reformulated as a Culture Zone22 My translation of the Swedish name Kulturstråket . 
that would include the two adjacent buildings as well as another house with a café for young people . 
The Culture Zone would give culture of various forms a central place in the city , focusing on cooperation , both with staff from the Recreation Department and also with external parties and cultural practitioners . 
The library building was planned to house a large stage and a smaller , more flexible stage on the lower floor . 
The book and other collections were to be moved to the second floor . 
The part of the project that got funding from the county focused on developing and anchoring the Culture Zone internally . 
After the 2014 election , political representation in the local council changed , one consequence being that the proposition to remodel the library as a Culture Zone was never adopted by the council . 
To view libraries as creative and productive institutions , Deleuze and Guattari 's notion of assemblage can be applied ( Gerolami 2015 , p. 168 ) . 
If an institution is understood as an assemblage , the different elements in the assemblage are determined not by their relations to the whole of the assemblage but by their relationships to the exterior . 
Thus , an element can be detached from the whole and moved to a different assemblage . 
An assemblage is more than the sum of its parts , and something new can emerge from the assemblage ( ibid. , p. 168 ) . 
If the library is understood as an assemblage , it can be linked to other institutions and contexts , without its relations being predetermined by economic or political factors or financial connections ( ibid. , p. 169 ) . 
Relations with different actors should be established within the library ( ibid. , p. 171 ) . 
An assemblage has several elements , both human and nonhuman . 
In a library‐assemblage , elements include the librarians , library assistants , the patrons , the physical space , furniture , objects including books , journals and computers , digital resources , inter alia OPAC , search engines and social media platforms , and the articulations that are produced and used within the assemblage . 
All these elements make up the assemblage and librarians are not assigned any specific position or legitimacy . 
The collaborations and efforts to increase participation in and cooperation with the community , made in both Arlöv , when engaging with a reference group to develop their programs , and in Ängelholm , when inviting the community to a public dialogue about the Culture Zone , can be analyzed as examples of connections made from the library‐assemblage . 
