This article presents a theoretical understanding of public library development that offers a fruitful and proactive approach to the challenges that the institution faces today . 
Basic tenets from the theory of plural agonistics ( Mouffe , 2005a ; 2005b ; 2013 ) are combined with a posthumanist analysis of institutions in contemporary society ( Gerolami , 2015 ; Deleuze & Guattari , 2004 ) to add to the existing body of research on public libraries that draws on institutional theory . 
The theoretical framework is positioned on the critical strand of research on public libraries , and contributes to it by emphasizing the proactive role that both the institution and the profession can have in society . 
Given the ontological stance , which directs our attention to the library as an ongoing performance , change is viewed as part of both what constitutes the library and what librarianship is about . 
This is contrary to the understanding of change as a response to threat , which is often presented in critical research on public libraries . 
Here , change is understood as inevitable . 
However , not all change is good ; therefore , professional debate about the content of the change is necessary . 
The theoretical framework suggested here can help to understand change in a manner that renders initiative . 
It proposes a productive position to enable librarians and libraries to meet the complicated situations they face in contemporary society . 
It is a formulation of a response to present conditions ( Leckie & Buschman , 2010 , p. xi ) , and an argument for resistance , achieved by framing the roles of the institution and the staff as important in political life . 
A first draft of the framework was drawn up in an empirical study of initiatives to develop two public libraries in Sweden ( Rivano Eckerdal , 2016 ) . 
Here , the framework is further elaborated , and presented in English with examples given from the empirical study . 
Sweden has a Library Act ( SFS 2013:801 ) , stating that every municipality ( the municipal unit below the County in Sweden 's two‐tier local‐government system ) should have at least one public library . 
Public libraries therefore exist all over the country . 
However , how public libraries are performed and organized is open for interpretation at municipal level . 
It is argued here that public libraries are main cultural institutions in society , and therefore that public libraries can be conceptualized as institutions with a vital political role in strengthening democracy . 
A sketch of the problems that current social trends pose for libraries will be presented below . 
The theoretical framework suggested here is introduced stepwise , beginning with the theory of plural agonistics . 
Then , a short introduction to the posthumanist ideas that have been added to research on public library development from an institutional theoretic perspective will follow . 
The theoretical framework is then further expanded , starting with the section A call for proactive resistance , before describing the empirical setting in which the framework is exemplified . 
The following sections present an analysis of the library as an assemblage and the proposition of the library as a verb : to librarize . 
Aspects of librarizing are further discussed in the sections To librarize is political and Librarizing as a professional performance . 
The Swedish Library Act provides a clear collective perspective ; libraries in the public library system are intended for everyone ( SFS 2013 : 801 , Section 2 ) . 
Public libraries are therefore neither run for the librarians ' own sake nor for that of politicians . 
Public libraries are driven for the benefit of the community and for society 's survival . 
Those interpreting and implementing the law are the employees at the library , who are ( still ) mostly librarians . 
This situation can be viewed as paradoxical . 
It might be that political decisions are judged by librarians as not in the best interests of good library performance , which affects the librarians ' own performance . 
Librarians in team leadership positions in Ängelholm talked about the experience of having two chairs to sit on . 
This remark is actually valid at all levels of the organization . 
Managers are closest to the politicians , and research has shed light on the complexity of this relation ( Evjen , 2015 ; Michnik , 2014 ) . 
It is not surprising that research has shown that library managers emphasize “ the importance of effective engagement with key decisions makers ” ( Goulding , Walton , & Stephens , 2012 , p.114 ) . 
Based on their knowledge , library employees interpret their mission to perform the library in the best way for the common good . 
In order to do so , employees need to maintain an ongoing debate about the interpretations of their varying understandings . 
By acknowledging that there are a variety of understandings of how to perform the library , an agonistic relation is established . 
Instead of a confrontation between , on one side , our friends and ourselves , and on the other , our enemies , a debate between adversaries unfolds . 
In their performance , they need to relate to the varying norms and values that concern professional practice , the tension already mentioned between tradition and innovation . 
This tension , as one librarian points to when talking about the different opinions that exist with regard to the Culture Zone in Ängelholm can be positive and creative . 
I ask if it is important that all staff share the same view on the Culture Zone and the librarian replies : Librarian : It is almost impossible to reach some kind of consensus.Interviewer : Mm ; but is it something that you should strive towards ? 
Librarian : I do n't think that it is possible really.And , later on in the conversation , the librarian says : Librarian : It is another kind of dynamic when you disagree . 
Because that is when the interesting discussions start . 
If everyone agrees then it does n't get as creative perhaps . 
( Conversation 24/6 2015 ) Librarian : It is almost impossible to reach some kind of consensus . 
Interviewer : Mm ; but is it something that you should strive towards ? 
Librarian : I do n't think that it is possible really . 
And , later on in the conversation , the librarian says : Librarian : It is another kind of dynamic when you disagree . 
Because that is when the interesting discussions start . 
If everyone agrees then it does n't get as creative perhaps . 
( Conversation 24/6 2015 ) To engage in debate and keep different views alive are important issues in an agonistic struggle , possibly aiming at a compromise , but then the debates are “ seen as temporary respites in an ongoing confrontation ” ( Mouffe , 2005a , p. 102 ) . 
To perform libraries in the best possible way , librarians need politicians ' mission and support , the community 's support , and confidence of their own in their ability to do the job . 
This requires a continuous questioning of the role libraries have in society and a balancing act between the needs of the surrounding community and the responsiveness of the library to be faithful to its role in and for society as the creative and productive force it can be . 
It also requires reflection over the extent to which political decisions are the best ones to ensure everyone 's right to the library . 
Budd , from a different perspective , discusses the future of librarianship , arguing that the profession needs to connect not to the traditional information society but to what he calls a moral information society , which includes taking a specific stance ( 2008 , p. 222 ) . 
Neutrality is not an option if the profession is to have a role in and for democracy . 
For librarians , as for other professionals , a main challenge lies in training for and working in a profession that they understand in a certain way , and later on having to deal with the profession 's development during their work‐life . 
They should relate to these developments in ways that foster a continued interest in and support for the libraries ' mission , including both tradition and renewal . 
Nowadays , challenging questions are raised about how much the library can change , whom the library is for , and who will thrive there . 
To promote development is a professional task , but also one not to be lent out to support the missions of others . 
With an understanding of the library as a verb , I argue that a debate on these issues needs to be conducted in both words and deeds , in relation to the continuous performance of the library , the librarizing . 
Balancing between various positions needs to be performed continuously , and it is not just an expression of an individual 's ability to adapt . 
The debate is part of the professional performance of librarians . 
Discussions about the content of libraries are crucial for librarians jointly to find ways to perform the library . 
The material cited in this article shows that there are a variety of understandings of the library and the librarian profession among library staff . 
The changes at the library in Arlöv did not lead to any major conflicts among the staff , but there seems to be an ongoing conversation about the content of the work they perform and how it should be understood in relation to what they perceive as a public library 's role and content . 
In discussions about which activities to include in the program , these questions arise at regular intervals . 
The staff need to decide about what they judge as appropriate activities in a library in order not to lose focus . 
Without the idea of librarizing , we might understand the case in Arlöv to indicate that the librarians had been faced with change , figured out how to address it , and then achieved a point of stability and consensus . 
With the idea of librarizing , we might instead understand the case in Arlöv to indicate that the librarians had integrated the idea of change into their performance of the library . 
When librarizing they perform the library as an ongoing set of activities with a strong focus of collaboration with the community . 
In relation to the proposed Culture Zone in Ängelholm , there are varied conceptions connected to different views on how a renovated library might function as a culture center . 
Opinions differ ; they are not polarized , but ambiguous over a wide range of issues . 
The delay in the pertinent political decisions has perhaps been an advantage in allowing for reflection and discussion about the roles of librarians and the library . 
Without the idea of librarizing this situation could be understood as totally unnecessary and as a failure . 
But by using librarizing this sort of discussion is viewed as central for librarians ' performance of the library . 
From a posthumanist understanding of the public library , questions can be rephrased . 
Instead of “ Do we need to change ? 
” the question might be : `` How do we move forward in a way that strengthens the role of the library in society ? 
Instead of “ Who is for or against change ” the question could be : “ How can we contribute to developing the library in a direction that is positive for democracy ? 
The rephrasings reveal that an ongoing debate discussing the enactment of the library is central to its performance . 
Libraries , taking a posthumanist approach , can be understood as an ongoing performance in interplay with the surrounding community in an assemblage‐like way , a creative and productive part of society . 
To coordinate the work , keeping the debate about the performance alive in a way that is perceived as meaningful for the participants is a challenging task . 
The actual direction and speed of the process must be calibrated , with the employees playing an important role in that . 
To understand the library as a verb means that librarians in their performances need to relate to the development of the institution and their own positions . 
To discuss and participate in the debate and performance of the library is how the professional role is fulfilled . 
In this article , I present a theoretical framework that I suggest is relevant for both research and practice within the field of library and information studies . 
The basic tenets of agonistic theory combined with an ontological focus on becoming provide an extension of critical research into public libraries . 
When understanding the library as an assemblage , its connections to the surrounding world are emphasized without imposing a threat on the core values of the institution . 
By understanding the library as a verb , change is inevitable and always present . 
Several elements , human and nonhuman , take part in the becoming of the library . 
To actively engage in shaping the development is then part of the professional performance of librarians . 
Change is neither good nor bad . 
It is inevitable . 
But the direction can be steered , and it is important to keep a debate going about what that direction should be . 
Librarians should engage in such a debate , acknowledging that there is no one single right way , but a variety of ways . 
In debate , they should consider which one is most beneficial for allowing the library to play a vital role for democracy . 
Theoretically , the suggested framework aims at further previous critical research on public library development by adding a more prominent proactive role to the institution and the profession . 
Adopting an ontological positioning of the library as a verb , as an ongoing performance , change is constant and not , as in previous critical research , a reaction to an external pressure . 
With regard to practice , the presented conceptualizing of libraries as a verb and its implications for librarianship as a possible active agent for radical democracy within society are offered as articulations of resistance . 
In the article , examples from two public libraries are presented and viewed through the lens provided by the theoretical framework . 
I encourage further elaboration of how librarizing may play out in practical library activities to explore its transforming potential . 
In many ways , the future of libraries and librarianship is a serious issue . 
A certain playfulness can be a way to approach it , not to reduce the severity of the issue , but as a way to gather strength and practice resistance against currents that tend to reduce public libraries and public librarians ' societal role . 
In the neoliberal hegemony that we live under ( Harvey , 2007 ; Mouffe , 2013 ) , financial recession has led to a gradual dismantling of the welfare state . 
The Swedish welfare model has , like that of many other western countries ( Goulding , 2013 ) , undergone a change marked by budget constraints and cut‐backs within the public sector . 
Many tax‐funded institutions face shrinking economic resources and increasing demands to prove their societal relevance in relation to measurable outcomes . 
This New Public Management ( NPM ) trend , with ideas and forms of organizing work imported from the industrial arena , has been implemented in public welfare sectors , such as education and health services . 
Previous studies show how NPM also affects what a library actually is , and what it should and could be , by means of demands and expectations for efficiency and goal‐oriented management ( Buschman , 2003 ; d'Angelo , 2006 ; Kann‐Christensen & Andersen , 2009 ; Kann‐Christensen & Balling , 2011 ; Hansson , 2015 ; Greene & McMenemy , 2012 ; McMenemy , 2009 ) . 
Within cultural policy the shift towards NPM can be observed in the tendency to connect cultural to other political fields in what has been called aspect policy development ( Johannisson , 2012 ) . 
Cultural initiatives within a municipality , such as investments in public libraries , are then formulated as important initiatives for the benefit of the local economy , creative industries , and entrepreneurship ( Hvenegaard Rasmussen , Jochumsen & Skot‐Hansen , 2011 ; Carlsson , 2013 ) . 
There has also been a tendency to consider cultural policy as a nonpolitical area because of the consensus that prevails across the political spectrum , a situation altered by the rise of radical right parties ( Lindsköld , 2015 ) . 
In her theory of plural agonistics Chantal Mouffe combines , in a sophisticated manner , the critical tradition ( Leckie & Buschman , 2010 ) with an anti‐essentialist ontology ( Mouffe 2013 , p.130 ; 2005b , p. 18 ) . 
Mouffe ( Mouffe , 2005a , p. 17 ) understands the social and the political as interlinked . 
Collective identities are established through differences that are often based on a hierarchy ( ibid. , p. 15 ) . 
This is not a question of identity based on individual essential traits ( ibid. , p. 18 ) but on the idea of the “ constitutive outside ” ( ibid. , p. 15 ) where a “ we ” is constituted by distinguishing it from a “ they ” ( ibid. , p. 16 ) : what we are not . 
When different collective identities are formed the differences may lead to conflicts ; the distinctions “ can always become the locus of an antagonism ” ( ibid. , p. 16 ) . 
This recognition , named by Mouffe radical negativity ( 2013 , p. 1 ) , is a basic tenet in her theory : there are conflicts with no rational solutions . 
The social is constituted by “ sedimented practices ” ( Mouffe , 2005a , p. 17 ) , which makes these practices seemingly natural , hiding their political origin as a specific hegemonic order ( Mouffe , 2005a , p. 18 ) . 
Mouffe 's radical negativity leads to what she calls an extension of the field of social conflict , one that : “ is extended rather than being concentrated in a ‘ privileged agent ’ such as the working class. ” ( Mouffe , 2013 , p. 84 ) . 
Therefore , several democratic struggles are taking place ( Mouffe , 2005a , p. 53 ) . 
In order to create a forceful collective “ we ” across differences , a chain of equivalence between groups needs to be established ( 2005a. , p. 53 ) . 
Mouffe opposes the deliberative forms of democracy , prominent in political theory nowadays , as they focus on the rational argument taking place in a dialogue which negates both the conflictual and the role that passion plays in politics ( 2013 , p. 6 ; 2005a , 2005b , p. 129 ) . 
Drawing on Mouffe 's theory of plural agonistics ( Mouffe , 2013 , p. 6 ) , passion , not rational discourse ( D'Angelo , 2006 , p. 1 ) , is crucial for the democratic process . 
Mouffe conceptualizes our society as a pluriverse ( Mouffe , 2005a , p.115 ) , characterized by agonistics , a notion emphasizing that we will never arrive at a final stage of tranquility and consensus ( ibid. , p. 16 ) . 
According to the idea of radical negativity , there are conflicts to which there are no rational solutions . 
Hence “ a prime task of democratic politics is not to eliminate passions from the sphere of the public , in order to render a rational consensus possible , but to mobilize those passions towards democratic designs ” ( Mouffe , 2005b , p. 103 ) . 
It is important to note that the roots of conflicts are often passionate and they need to be given a political shape to avoid violence ( Mouffe , 2005a , p.21 ) . 
The recognition that antagonism is inevitable is at heart in Mouffe 's theory as is her stress on addressing how to shape antagonism into agonism . 
The task for democracy is to transform antagonism into agonism ( ibid. , p. 20 ) . 
However , agonism is possible only if opponents recognize each other as legitimate , which involves a transition from an opposition between enemies to that between adversaries ( Mouffe , 2013 , p. 7 , 15 ) . 
By proposing the adversarial model , Mouffe stresses the importance of the formal democratic institutions and practices where the agonistic debates unfold ( Mouffe , 2005a , p. 20 ) . 
