Online production communities , such as Wikipedia and open‐source software development projects , represent an alternative form of organizing that is particularly suited for the cocreation of knowledge‐based products ( Benkler , 2006 ; Shirky , 2009 ) . 
Volunteers in peer‐production are responsible for project tasks ( including both production and administrative duties ) . 
As participants become more involved in the project and gain the community 's trust , they gradually move from the periphery to the community core , gaining access to more sensitive and influential decisions ( Amrit & Van Hillegersberg , 2010 ) . 
The community works to attract and retain volunteers with diverse interests and skill‐sets , and is responsible for governing the production project . 
In his seminal essay , Raymond ( 1999 ) depicts traditional command‐and‐control organizations as cathedrals , managed through formal structures ; in stark contrast , the self‐organized community‐based model that is common in open‐source software development is viewed as a bazaar ( suggesting self‐organization , where participants exert agency in determining their mode of participation ) . 
In reality , the participation trajectories taken by contributors to peer‐production are the result of the interplay between structure and agency : online production communities , through structural ( or governance ) mechanisms ( such as policies , and access privileges ) channel the potential for participants ' agency , thereby influencing their actions and behavior ( Auray , 2012 ; Butler , Joyce , & Pike , 2008 ; Forte , Larco , & Bruckman , 2009 ; Schroeder & Wagner , 2012 ) . 
Conversely , participants apply their agency and take an active part in shaping the community 's structure ( e.g. , in codeveloping policies and collaboratively defining roles ' responsibilities ; Aaltonen & Lanzara , 2015 ) . 
Our focus in this study is on one particular angle of the structure/agency tension : contributors ' roles within the community . 
Roles represent a primary mechanism for coordinating work . 
Structural roles allow access to resources and decision‐making and reflect the participant 's position in the community . 
Mature online production communities often develop intricate role schemes with specialized responsibilities , sometimes implemented through access privileges , which entail rights to participate in : production activities , community decision‐making , and the development and enforcement of norms , policies , and rules . 
Wikipedia , for example , has developed a complex organizational structure that includes more than 20 different access privileges ( i.e. , structural roles ) , such as privileges associated with quality assurance work and with combatting deliberate manipulations attempts ( Arazy , Nov , & Ortega , 2014 ) . 
Although structural roles constrain to some extent participants ' engagement , contributors to peer‐production still have substantial latitude in determining how , when , and what to work on ( Benkler , 2006 ; Lakhani & Panetta , 2007 ; Puranam & Hakonsson , 2015 ; von Krogh , Spaeth , & Lakhani , 2003 ) . 
Recent years have seen increased scholarly interest in the nature of emergent work and in particular the processes by which prototypical activity patterns organically emerge in knowledge coproduction ( Faraj , Jarvenpaa , & Majchrzak , 2011 ; Kane , Johnson , & Majchrzak , 2014 ) . 
Staying with the Wikipedia example , despite the structural role system , production activity is to a large extent free from workflow constraints , such that contributors are autonomous to choose whether they want to make small changes such as fix typos , add new content , delete content , or reorganize others ' prior postings ( Arazy , Nov , Patterson , & Yeo , 2011 ) . 
Furthermore , it is not only that production processes are open to all , participation in coordination and policy work , too , is largely unconditional on access privileges ( Kane , 2011 ) . 
In line with recent studies , we use the term “ emergent roles ” to refer to prototypical activity patterns that organically emerge from participants ' activity choices ( Arazy et al. , 2017 ; Arazy , Daxenberger , Lifshitz‐Assaf , Nov , & Gurevych , 2016 ) . 
The structural perception of roles highlights the importance of organizational design , whereas the emergent view of roles stresses contributors ' agency to enact particular actions at the moment . 
The organizational literature ( Bechky , 2006 ) suggests that structural roles and their enactment are interwoven . 
However , to date research investigating participants ' emergent role behavior in peer‐production has proceeded largely independent of scholarly work on a communities ' structural role system . 
Conversely , conceptual frameworks regarding emergent role behavior ( Arazy et al. , 2016 ) have been divorced from models of the transition between structural roles ( for instance , the Reader‐to‐Leader framework ; Preece & Shneiderman , 2009 ) . 
To investigate the tension between emergent and structural roles in peer‐production , we wish to understand the extent to which the assignment into a structural role constrains behavior ( i.e. , leads to a change in the contributor 's self‐enacted activity profile ) . 
When structural mechanisms are powerful—as in traditional command‐and‐control organizations—we would expect sharp behavioral changes to accompany role transitions . 
In contrast , in a fluid setting with weak structural constraints , role transition events are likely to have little impact on behavior patterns . 
We perceive peer‐production initiatives as organizations that blend limited structure with ample opportunities for contributors to express their agency , and thus conjecture that transitions into structural roles will be associated with moderate changes in activity patterns . 
Specifically , our objective is to try and identify common patterns in behavioral changes that are associated with these structural role‐assignment events . 
If structural role‐transitions are to be viewed as lateral movements—as proposed by Dahlander and O'Mahony ( 2011 ) —we are to expect a shedding of one emergent role and taking on a different activity profile . 
If , on the other hand , we are to view the role structure as a hierarchical power relationship ( Arazy et al. , 2014 ) , a promotion into a higher‐level role entails assuming additional responsibilities and thus is likely to be associated with adding a novel dimension to the existing activity profile . 
Our investigation has the potential to yield important insights about the way in which structure and agency interplay in peer‐production participation trajectories , inform research on online knowledge collaboration , and offer guidelines to custodians of online communities . 
The setting for our empirical investigation is the English Wikipedia . 
Wikipedia was able to recruit thousands of volunteers who contribute their knowledge and develop extensive governance mechanisms for coordinating the collaborative authoring process ( Aaltonen & Lanzara , 2015 ; Arazy , Yeo , & Nov , 2013 ; Forte et al. , 2009 ; Ransbotham & Kane , 2011 ) . 
This setting is particularly suitable for investigating the tension between structural and emergent roles : On one hand , Wikipedia has developed an extensive access privilege system ( Arazy , Ortega , Nov , Yeo , & Balila , 2015 ) , whereas on the other hand the various forms of participation within Wikipedia are largely open to all , regardless of their access privileges . 
In what follows , we provide an overview of related work on roles in organizational theory and in peer‐production , highlighting the gap this study tries to address . 
We then proceed to describe our research methodology and the study 's findings . 
We conclude by discussing the implications of our findings—to both theory and practice—and by pointing to a few possible future research directions . 
For decades , the tension between social structure and human agency has attracted the attention of social scientists . 
Agency refers to an actor 's ability to make a choice to act , whereas social structure is the patterned social arrangements in society that are both emergent from and determinant of individuals ' actions ( Fuchs , 2001 ) . 
In organizational settings , the same tension between agency and structure is manifested : Although the structure of organizational design constrains members ' actions , individuals within an organization still exert free choice in determining how to perform their job . 
Roles are the basic units of socialization ; they provide a meaning system by encapsulating the social context , history of actions , structures of interaction , and the attributes people bring to the interaction ( Blau , Coser , & Goodman , 1995 ) . 
Two streams of role theory , the structural and the interactionist , provide different approaches to studying roles in organizations . 
From a structural perspective , a role is defined in terms of the expected behaviors that arise from norms and others ' demands ( Hughes , 1958 ; Thomas & Biddle , 1966 ) . 
Structural role theory focuses on the ways in which role expectations constrain and circumscribe individuals ' behavior . 
Interactionist frameworks to understanding role behavior ( Blumer , 1986 ; Mead , 1934 ) , on the other hand , focus on the ways individuals can dynamically construct and reconstruct social arrangements through the behaviors they enact . 
Put together , role structures provide a general framework that constrains and enables individuals ' action , yet individuals have much leeway in enacting their own roles ( Turner , 1978 ) . 
Studies of self‐organizing teams demonstrate how structural roles and enactment are interwoven . 
Brown and Eisenhardt ( 1997 ) , for example , studied projects teams in an engineering firm and found that neither mechanistic nor organic structures produced optimal results ; instead , “ …successful multiple‐product innovation blends limited structure around responsibilities and priorities with extensive communication and design freedom to create improvisation within current projects ” ( p. 1 ) . 
Other examples include high‐response teams ( for instance , firefighting , emergency response ) , who rely on the role structure to coordinate complex and interdependent activities under extreme time constraints , yet at the same time organize their behavior by adjusting in relation to one another ( Bigley & Roberts , 2001 ) . 
In the film projects studied by Bechky ( 2006 ) , for instance , the generalized role structure and the role enactments were found to mutually support one another , establishing a means for almost immediate coordination on each new project . 
Contributors in online production communities play different roles , with the majority of participants , who are not very active and often do not assume a structural role , at the community 's periphery , and a small minority who take on additional responsibilities and privileges constituting the core . 
In reviewing the literature on the roles of peer‐production , we attend to both streams in the literature : studies that have emphasized the structural perspective and works that have adopted the emergent lens . 
Prior work grounded in the structural view of roles stress the importance of access to resources and decision‐making processes . 
Studies of Wikipedia adopting the structural perspective provide a description of the formal role structure , by building on the community 's extensive access privileges system ( Arazy et al. , 2014 ; Forte et al. , 2009 ; Stvilia , Twidale , Smith , & Gasser , 2008 ) . 
The majority of these prior studies have primarily been interested in a particular Wikipedia mechanism ( for instance , Forte et al. , 2009 ) . 
Other relevant works in this area have investigated the functions and responsibilities associated with structural roles ( Arazy et al. , 2015 ; Butler , Sproull , Kiesler , & Kraut , 2007 ) , and have studied the process by which individuals are promoted from one structural role to another ( Burke & Kraut , 2008 ; Collier , Burke , Kittur , & Kraut , 2010 ) . 
Recent conceptualizations provide an alternative view and depict online communities as flexible entities , governed through emergent coordination mechanisms , where participants ' roles are enacted at the moment ( Arazy et al. , 2016 ; Faraj et al. , 2011 ; Kane et al. , 2014 ) . 
Faraj et al . 
( 2011 ) argue that the absence of deep social relationships and the lack of traditional structural mechanisms free the collaboration from concerns of social conventions , ownership , and hierarchy . 
Few prior works have empirically explored the nature of these emergent roles . 
Empirical studies in the area have profiled contributors ' activities , and then clustered them to identify the “ bundles ” of activities that represent their prototypical activity patterns ( Arazy et al. , 2016 , 2017 ; Liu & Ram , 2011 ; Welser et al. , 2011 ; Yang , Halfaker , Kraut , & Hovy , 2016 ) . 
There are only a handful of studies that have investigated the relationship between contributors ' emergent roles ( as reflected in their activity profiles ) and structural positions within the online community . 
Dahlander and O'Mahony ( 2011 ) investigated the early years in the GNOME open‐source software development community . 
They analyzed the activity profiles ( in terms of : “ technical contributions , ” “ technical communications , ” and “ coordination work ” ) leading to and resulting from being accepted into two privileged groups ( foundation member and board director ) . 
They found that “ project members contributed significantly more effort to the project after progressing to lateral authority roles , most notably with respect to coordination work ” ( p. 962 ) . 
A few studies have investigated promotion decisions in Wikipedia , focusing on the criteria employed by the community in accepting ( or rejecting ) a candidate 's nomination ( Burke & Kraut , 2008 ; Collier , Burke , Kittur , & Kraut , 2008 ) . 
More relevant to our investigation are studies that considered the tension between contributors ' agency and the community 's structural role system . 
These studies have tended to focus on the activity performed by contributors once already in a structural position , often investigating the differences in activity profiles between different types of roles in Wikipedia ( Collier et al. , 2010 ; Zhu , Kraut , Wang , & Kittur , 2011 ) or in open‐source software projects ( von Krogh et al. , 2003 ) . 
The question of how the structural role held by a contributor affects the emergent role s/he volunteers to play remains unanswered . 
The organizational literature , too , provides little insight in this regard . 
In traditional command‐and‐control organizations , employee activity is largely determined by role prescription , and thus predicts behavior to substantially change with the assignment into a new role . 
In stark contrast , if we accept the view that online production communities are highly fluid and structure‐free organizations ( Faraj et al. , 2011 ) , then changes in structural positions are likely to have little effect on contributors ' activity profiles . 
Furthermore , the few studies showing a linkage between structural roles and activity patterns disagree on the nature of structural role transitions . 
One strand in the literature has conceptualized role transitions in online communities as lateral movements ( Dahlander & O'Mahony , 2011 ; Preece & Shneiderman , 2009 ) , thus implying that upon a transition from one structural position to the other a participant would shed his current activity profile and assume a new behavioral pattern . 
Another strand has made the case for power relations between structural roles , whereby one role subsumes a lower‐level role ( Arazy et al. , 2014 ) ; if this conceptualization is accurate , then when moving up the role hierarchy a participant is expected to expand his/her activity profile and complement their activity profile with new forms of action . 
The diverging views in previous research on roles , coupled with insufficient empirical validation , stress the need for a more nuanced understanding of the behavioral dynamics that is associated with the transition into structural roles . 
The goal of this study , thus , is to address these gaps and enhance our understanding regarding the relationship between Wikipedia 's structure ( in terms of the structural roles employed by a contributor ) and contributors ' agency ( manifested in the profiles of activities they voluntarily enact ) . 
Our research questions concern the extent to which role‐assignment events are associated with changes in contributors ' activity patterns . 
In particular , we ask : RQ1 : How do Wikipedians ' activity profiles change as a result of being assigned structural roles ? 
RQ1a : Which types of activities are most likely to change as a result of these role‐assignment events ? 
RQ1b : The assignment into which structural roles is most likely to engender changes in activity profiles ? 
RQ2 : Across the various structural roles and types of activities , do behavioral changes resulting from role‐assignment events follow distinctive patterns ? 
The setting for our study is Wikipedia , which hosts many different projects , each defined as the coproduction of a particular encyclopedic article ( Halavais & Lackaff , 2008 ) . 
Given Wikipedia 's collaborative‐authoring process , our sampling strategy centers on sets of contributor groups coproducing articles , and investigates all the members of each of the groups studied . 
Our starting point is the data produced by Arazy et al . 
( 2016 ) , which includes 1,000 articles from the January 2012 dump of the English Wikipedia and was generated through a double‐stratified sampling procedure ( based on articles ' maturity and topical domains ) . 
Our sample includes only participants that made at least one activity to these 1,000 articles : altogether , 222,119 contributors making 721,806 activities ( i.e. , article revisions ) . 
An advantage of this data set is that editing activities have been annotated , employing a combination of manual and machine‐learning approaches ( Arazy et al. , 2016 ) . 
The unit of analysis for the annotation was at the revision level , where each revision could contain multiple types of “ editing work. ” Table 1 lists the 12 categories of wiki work that we used . 
An evaluation on a test set showed that this approach yielded good results . 
Please refer to Arazy et al . 
( 2016 ) for additional details regarding the data set and the procedure for annotating the wiki editing activities . 
We also recorded data regarding the activities of the 222,119 contributors outside the set of 1,000 articles . 
Wikipedia maintains a series of wiki pages dedicated to various forms of engagement ( Kittur & Kraut , 2010 ) . 
Overall , Wikipedia maintains 29 areas of content ( i.e. , namespaces ) : the Main namespace is dedicated to coauthoring encyclopedic entries , and the other namespaces for coordination , communication , and policy . 
Here we focus on the 16 core namespaces , which are grouped in subject/talk pairs.11 Please see http : //www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Help : Namespaces . 
Table 2 lists the Wikipedia namespaces included in our analysis and briefly describes each . 
For each activity made to these namespaces by contributors in our samples , we recorded the time of activity and its size ( in bytes ) . 
Of the 222,119 contributors in the data set , 8,247 held special access privileges . 
Over time , the Wikipedia community has developed a comprehensive and detailed set of procedures for governing the collaborative editing process , including a well‐defined scheme of access privileges ( Arazy et al. , 2014 ; Butler et al. , 2008 ) . 
Whereas access privileges are an important mechanism for governing , by and large the editing activities across the various Wikipedia namespaces are unconstrained by structural access privileges , with a few exceptions ( for English Wikipedia privileges ) : ( a ) the creation of a new wiki page in any of the namespaces is not available to unregistered contributors22 https : //en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia : Your_first_article ; ( b ) The access privileges of sysop , rollbacker , and abusefilter are provided with special tools to more effectively revert pages back to their prior revisions33 Contributors not holding these access privileges are allowed to submit a revert and wait for approval ( by a contributor with these specific access privileges ) https : //en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help : Reverting ; and ( c ) contributing to the Mediawiki namespace pages is only available to sysop .44 See https : //en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help : MediaWiki_namespace . 
Nonetheless , a contributor without a sysop access privilege can submit a contribution and wait for approval . 
As of April 2017 , the Wikipedia community in the English language organized structural roles through over 30 distinct access privileges , where a contributor can hold multiple access privileges . 
We focus on human editors ( excluding from this analysis software bots ; Niederer & Van Dijck , 2010 ) and access privileges belonging to the English Wikipedia . 
Data regarding contributors ' access privileges were retrieved through Wikipedia 's API . 
We restricted the data gathering to only those users who held special access privileges , excluding anonymous contributors and nonprivileged registered members . 
Also excluded from our analyses were access privileges that are no longer in use ( for instance , related to the now inactive User Feedback feature : afttest and afttest‐hide ) , as well as special access privileges given to external parties such as researchers , educators , or developers of the wiki software ( epadmin , epcampus , epcoordinator , epinstructor , eponline , epstaff , developer ) . 
Finally , we limit our analysis to access privileges associated with the English Wikipedia , excluding “ global ” access privileges such as founder , importer , and steward ( Arazy et al. , 2014 ) . 
Table 3 provides a list of the structural Wikipedia roles . 
To extract information regarding the role‐transition event ( i.e. , granting or revoking of access privileges ) date , we used the WikiDAT tool ( http : //glimmerphoenix.github.io/WikiDAT/ ) . 
To test whether the assignment into a structural role is associated with a change in activity profile , we decomposed each contributor 's activity array , based on the access privileges s/he has received . 
That is , for each of his/her special access privileges ( i.e. , structural role ) , we created a list of the contributor 's activity in the period before and after the date of structural role assignment , covering edit activity across all Wikipedia namespaces.55 We also performed a sensitivity analysis , restricting the duration that activity was recorded before and after role assignment events . 
Our analysis of a 6‐month and 12‐month restriction revealed that the most significant differences between the “ pre ” and “ post ” lists were obtained for the unrestricted activity periods . 
Each of the activity lists was normalized , recording for each activity type the percent it represents out of the total activity for that list ( instead of the number of edits ) . 
A similar list was created for representing a contributor 's detailed editing activities within the set of 1,000 articles . 
Focusing on the patterns that reoccur frequently in our sample , we proceeded to analyze the access privileges with at least 30 instantiations , as described in Table 2 . 
For these access privileges and for each activity type independently , we compared contributors ' profiles pre‐ and postrole‐assignment events . 
This analysis was repeated for both global activities ( that is , activity type entails the particular namespace ) and detailed production activities . 
For both the global and detailed activity , we repeated the analyses employing two alternative metrics : activity count and size ( in bytes ) . 
To test the differences pre/postrole‐assignment , we performed a Mann–Whitney U‐test ( aka Mann–Whitney–Wilcoxon test ) , which is a nonparametric analysis that checks whether one sample tends to have larger values from another and is recommended for non‐normal distributions . 
Our null hypotheses were that distributions of both pre‐ and postevent lists are equal ; we used a 2‐tailed test employing the statistical significance threshold of p < .05 . 
Tests were repeated and performed independently for the various access‐privileges activity‐types pairs . 
When calculating statistical significance levels , we applied the false discovery rate ( FDR ) correction : a statistical method for counteracting the problem of multiple comparisons ( that is , familywise error rate ) , which focuses on the proportion of falsely significant tests ( i.e. , Type I errors in the null hypothesis testing ; Benjamini & Hochberg , 1995 ) . 
Our analysis of the extent to which structural role transitions are linked to changes in activity profiles was based on a quantitative summary of the Mann–Whitney U‐test results . 
Our first descriptive statistics focused on the revisions contributors make across the various namespaces ( in terms of the count and size of these revisions ) . 
Contributors ' activity data exhibited a power law distribution , where on average they make substantial changes to articles in some namespaces ( the highest activity recorded in “ Main ” ) , whereas the average activity in other namespaces is quite low ( namely , the primary and talk pages for the namespaces of : “ File , ” “ Mediawiki , ” “ Help , ” and “ Category ” ) . 
The usage of structural access privileges , too , showed an uneven distribution , where some access privileges represent a meaningful structural role ( the primary roles include : rollbacker , reviewer , autoreviewer , and sysop ) , while other access privileges are assigned to few contributors ( for instance : oversight , checkuser , bureaucrat , templateeditor , OTRS‐member , massmessage‐sender ) . 
Table 3 describes each role in terms of the percentage of contributors receiving this role out of all special‐privilege contributors in the sample . 
In total , the number of role‐assignment ( or revoke ) events in our sample was 16,475 . 
The Wikipedians with special access privileges made relatively few role transitions , taking on average three roles ( i.e. , two transitions ) . 
Here , too , activity displayed a power law distribution . 
In describing the results of our analyses below , for brevity we only present details regarding the edit count metric . 
