We first discuss how Korean immigrants adapt the ICTs infrastructures of the host country into their information behavior . 
Then , we unfold how they use various ICTs , using the “ global ” and “ local ” dimensions of immigrants ' ICT usage ( Mehra & Papajohn , 2007 ) as a framework . 
As newcomers to their host countries , interviewees continually faced unfamiliar situations , which seemed to extend into their ICT usage . 
Interviewees were not accustomed to the ICT infrastructure in the U.S. P4 mentioned her frustration with Internet speed in the U.S. : “ We were not familiar with the speed of the internet here . 
It is incredibly slower than you can imagine . 
If I press the enter key , the screen has to change , but it never appears quickly and it is disconnected so frequently. ” Impatience with ICTs in the U.S. was due to interviewees ' prior experiences with ICTs in Korea . 
“ Internet here is much more expensive than in Korea , for the speed as well ( P2 ) . 
” From their perspective , they paid more for Internet access and mobile services in the U.S. , while suffering slower access speeds . 
The average Internet speeds are twice as fast in Korea than in the U.S. ( Wikipedia , 2017a ) , and the package prices of broadband/TV/phone in certain US cities , which offer lower download speeds , stand in stark contrast : San Francisco ( $ 99 ) , New York ( $ 70 ) , compared with Seoul ( $ 15 ; Geoghegan , 2013 ) . 
This led interviewees to change their information behavior . 
P15 , for example , used to communicate with others by uploading his daily photos/movies on SNS in Korea , but stopped doing that here because he felt it was too slow to upload or download content using his home Wi‐Fi . 
Sometimes he intentionally went to the college just to use their Wi‐Fi with its faster speed . 
P12 used to be satisfied with using a single technology , a smartphone , while in Korea . 
However , he purchased other technologies ( for instance , GPS navigation ) , optimized to meet his specific needs . 
When he went on road trips in the U.S. , he sometimes had trouble finding the route because his phone lost its connection frequently , so he felt it was unreliable . 
“ You should n't imagine [ the U.S. ] is the same as Korea . 
I traveled a lot around here , and there are so many places I can not use my smartphone.… You should buy a navigation system if you do n't want to cry in the middle of nowhere. ” Interviewees utilized ICTs including location‐based services , search engines and online communities to acquire information that helps them cope with everyday lives in the U.S. We noted that interviewees often used location‐based services such as maps ( for instance , Google Maps ) and GPS navigation systems ( for instance , TomTom ) . 
These services let them avoid feelings of “ lostness ” in a new society and help them get a better sense of where to go in their host country . 
For example , P6 noted she always searched for bus information ( bus schedules , the availability of bus stops near her destination ) wherever she went ; P5 often checked Google Maps whenever she wanted to go to local restaurants and read what others thought about the place . 
With regard to search engines , some interviewees intentionally “ migrated ” to Google , the most popular search engine in their host country , from Naver , a Korean‐based search engine used by more than 80 % of the South Korean search market ( Economist , 2014 ) . 
Most participants believed Naver did not provide sufficient information for living in the U.S . 
Sometimes interviewees chose different search engines according to the information they looked for : Naver for information related to Korea , and Google for content related to the U.S. ( P3 , P14 , and P16 ) . 
P4 even changed her mobile applications from Naver series ( for instance , Naver calendar , Naver N‐drive ) to the Google equivalents after she arrived in the U.S. Further , interviewees used online communities such as SeattleMissy , Kseattle , and MissyUSA , which are specifically built for Korean immigrants in the U.S . 
These online communities offer tailored information provided by other Koreans . 
When P6 ’ s child became sick late at night , she did not know what kinds of medicine she could purchase as substitutes for Korean medicine brands ; further , she did not know where she could take her child for emergency care . 
She posted her child 's symptoms and asked questions on SeattleMissy . 
Fortunately , she received quick responses from other mothers with similar experiences , and was able to act accordingly . 
Although interviewees relied highly on search engines to seek information about the host country , they often struggled to find what they wanted , or to assess the quality of information they found . 
Interviewees tended to prefer user‐generated content ( for instance , reviews on online communities and personal opinions on blogs ) to relatively objective information ( for instance , official websites ) which they found difficult to access . 
P16 described her frustration when using the Google search engine , and revealed her general expectations for Internet searching . 
She anticipated reading others ' opinions on topics—a subjective pooling of information over objective or corporate content : “ I would say official sites are not generally what I look for.… I just want to read others ' opinions about the college , not its official website…it is like a way of learning about the college from others ' perspective. ” More problematic is that even when interviewees found the user‐generated content in the U.S. , it was not always easy for them to interpret : “ I do n't think internet information is always useful in the U.S. because the online recommendations usually do not match my taste . 
I am not sure if my taste is unique , but generally online reviews do n't meet my expectations ( P13 ) . 
” They did not seem to have that problem with user‐generated content from Korean‐centric websites such as Kseattle or Naver . 
P12 struggled with how to assess restaurant reviews on U.S. sites such as Yelp compared with his comfort using Naver blogs : “ In Korea , it was easy for me to gauge if reviews on Naver blogs were applicable to me or not , so I was able to get some idea [ of ] if the restaurant [ keyword for searching ] would meet my expectation before I went there . 
But here , I do n't have any sense what it will be like , even though I read the reviews about the restaurants. ” All interviewees maintained their “ global ” identity by keeping updated with the news in their home country , as well as by communicating with their friends and family still there . 
Easy access to ethnic media helped interviewees obtain information about their home country on a daily basis . 
Many interviewees followed Korean news online—the news curated by the Korean portal services ( for instance , Naver , Daum ) and the major Korean broadcasting system websites ( for instance , KBS , MBC ) enabled them to easily follow what is currently happening in their home country . 
Some interviewees actively followed Korean media content ( for instance , news , drama ) via online streaming services or Korean cable channels with subscriptions . 
At the same time , most interviewees frequently communicated with their family and friends via mobile messaging applications ( for instance , Kakao Talk , Line ) , Internet phone services ( for instance , LG Internet phone ) , and social network services ( for instance , Kakao Story , Facebook ) to acquire psychological comfort and obtain necessary information . 
Further , ICTs enabled interviewees to easily communicate with other Koreans in the U.S. such as extended family or friends , which was not discussed in a prior study ( Mehra & Papajohn , 2007 ) . 
Other Koreans in the U.S. were helpful for interviewees to get “ locally ” oriented in the host country ; however , we found that they also serve as a “ global ” network to immigrants by providing cultural and psychological support . 
For example , P3 had Korean‐born friends living in the U.S. , who she frequently contacted by phone . 
They helped her in being better connected with the home country : “ I have really close old friends in other states , and we speak almost everyday.… I asked one friend about the better Korean TV provider…the TV provider she recommended me broadcasts live , almost the same schedule of broadcasting systems in Korea. ” ICTs enabled interviewees to maintain their ethnic identity by connecting with other Koreans ; however , such strong connections may prevent them from learning about the other ethnicities in the host country . 
One reason could be that interviewees reduce their interactions with other ethnicities while interacting only with fellow Koreans . 
For example , P16 , who came to the U.S. a year prior , mentioned that she was too busy to meet new people because she volunteers for the Washington State Korean Association , which she had found on Kseattle . 
P6 did not feel like making new friends , as she already had many Korean friends from the church in the U.S. P7 tried to play video‐games with his non‐Korean school friends but could n't because of “ cultural differences ” in terms of how to co‐play video‐games ; instead , he found other Korean friends . 
Further , easy access to ethnic media also reduced their needs for informational sources outside what other Koreans created or translated , as it was an easier information source for them to understand : “ Once I turn on TV news here , it does n't last more than 5 minutes . 
I just feel like the anchors in the news speak English too fast , and I am desperate to watch Korean TV news . 
Then I just turn it off and read Korean news online ( P4 ) . 
” Maintaining strong connections with people , society , and culture of the home country should not be a problem . 
However , it could be problematic if it reduces opportunities to interact with other ethnicities and to become familiar with the language and culture in the host country , which could delay immigrants ' psychological migration to the host society . 
P5 mentioned some Korean immigrants who mostly interact with other Koreans in the U.S. , and considered them “ narrow‐minded , ” and as “ separated from the major stream. ” This suggests that interviewee 's physical locality in their host countries could remain less relevant to their identity when they maintain strong connections with people and the culture of their home country via ICTs . 
This study aimed to examine Korean immigrants ' information behaviors during their immigration process and to cast a more detailed look into their ICT usage . 
Through interviews with Korean immigrants , we found their information needs are complex and nuanced . 
Despite frequent use of ICTs for their “ glocal ” identity , these immigrants struggle to adapt to the ICTs in the host country and thus fail to strengthen “ local ” identity . 
We discuss how our findings are situated in prior literature on the topic , and offer implications to support migration processes . 
This study extends research on immigrants ' information behavior by examining and adding to information needs that prior work identified ( Shoham & Strauss , 2008 ) in the context of Korean immigrants in the U.S. Their cultural value and limited knowledge about the host country affected what they prioritized ( information for education ) or struggled to seek ( health and legal information ) while various types of informational needs were found to be closely intertwined . 
In particular , the need for language information was fundamental , which aligns with prior work that asserted the importance of language as an access to necessary resources for settlement ( Baron et al. , 2014 ; Nomura & Caidi , 2013 ) . 
The complex nature of immigrants ' information needs shows that their settlement is not a simple problem to be solved by a few solutions ( Caidi et al. , 2010 ) , indicating that diversified ways of support are needed in immigrants ' everyday lives for successful settlement . 
This study also elucidates how Korean immigrants utilize and struggle with ICTs in the settlement process , building on prior work ( Mehra & Papajohn , 2007 ) . 
The technology‐savvy immigrants needed to alter their information behavior according to the ICTs infrastructure in the host country while struggling to manage their “ glocal ” lives . 
Their challenges in utilizing ICTs for information needs lead to questions on the traditional distinction proposed by the digital divide , contrasting simply between “ Haves ” and “ Have‐nots. ” As one 's access to and skills with ICTs are the most important elements in our modern era of information ( Hersberger , 2003 ) , either “ Have ” or “ Have‐nots ” are important in researching the digital divide ( Hargittai & Hsieh , 2012 ; Van Dijk , 2006 ) as well as immigrants ' information behavior ( Andrade & Doolin , 2016 ; Haight et al. , 2014 ) . 
We found , however , that thinking about the digital divide in terms of “ Haves ” and “ Have‐nots ” can lead researchers to overlook the “ Had‐Mores. ” In our study , the “ Had‐Mores ” —those who were used to better and faster ICTs , but who no longer had access to that infrastructure or those technologies—still struggle to use ICTs in the U.S. to find and make sense of information necessary for their settlement . 
Our findings suggest that “ Had‐Mores ” also need support to appropriate their ICTs use in the host country . 
However , this need may be currently overlooked . 
For example , the current re‐education programs for immigrants tend to focus on attaining basic technology skills ( for instance , learning how to send emails : Seattle Office of Immigrant and Refugee Affairs , 2017 ) rather than adjusting their existing information skills . 
This focus on technology skills would not be useful to the “ Had‐Mores ” who are web‐proficient . 
Those who help with immigrants ' settlement process , such as local libraries , government , and nonprofit organizations , need to note that these “ tech‐savvy ” populations also need educational or instrumental support to perform information behavior at the desired levels that may be different from those with low technology literacy . 
In addition , our findings also highlight the need to reexamine the current literacy scales to assess one 's competence to utilize ICTs . 
Lloyd ( 2014 ) noted that information literacy is a social practice located in the interaction between people and sociocultural aspects of their new information environments , and explored how refugees ' experience of a new health environment shaped the development of their health literacy . 
In this respect , an ICTs literacy index should reflect the sociocultural aspects of information behavior , rather than the individual 's capability . 
One specific way in which “ Had‐Mores ” need support is to better appropriate user‐generated content in the U.S. Our interviewees struggled to assess user‐generated content for “ local ” information . 
This caused frustration that stems from gaps between interviewees ' self‐assessed ICT skills and their experiences using a host country 's ICTs . 
These preconceptions may lead immigrants to be less likely to trust user‐generated content available in their host countries and to question its relevance to them . 
These skeptical attitudes can influence immigrants ' information behaviors at large , and may further limit them from obtaining the help and information they need . 
One way to support them could be to help them easily access information that matches their taste or context . 
People are likely to assign more credibility to information if they believe the source of information is closer to their own context and beliefs ( Wathen & Burkell , 2002 ) . 
Similarly , interviewees put more faith in information found through Naver , as they could rely on their shared cultural knowledge with the content contributor . 
On the other hand , when looking up reviews on Yelp , interviewees wondered if the reviews were applicable to them because they could not easily perceive the Yelp reviewers ' tastes and experiences as being similar to their own ( P13 ) . 
Techniques like collaborative filtering could be used to reduce the barriers for immigrants to find information more similar to their own tastes , and hence more relevant to them . 
Collaborative filtering matches content to users based on the opinions of other people and makes recommendations on this basis ( Resnick , Iacovou , Suchak , Bergstrom , & Riedl , 1994 ) . 
The technique has been widely used in other domains to improve the relevance of information , such as movie recommendations ( Ali & Van Stam , 2004 ) and online shopping ( Linden , Smith , & York , 2003 ) . 
The similar techniques could be extended to sites for local information like Yelp , particularly for immigrants . 
Immigrants would then be able to read the information generated by others who have had similar experiences , faced similar problems , and who hold similar attitudes . 
Integration or inclusion , having identities in both host and home countries , may be the ideal type of immigration in terms of immigrants ' psychological well‐being and social stability of the host country , compared with assimilation , separation , or marginalization ( Segal & Elliott , 2010 ) . 
Inclusion policies need to encourage immigrants to involve themselves in the larger society , as a stronger focus on their own culture unintentionally results in moves toward separation ( Berry & Sam , 1997 ) . 
This study uncovers that Korean immigrants ' ICTs usage of the “ global ” network may delay their learning about the host society , which aligns with prior work ( Komito , 2011 ) , and that they also need support to expand “ local ” network with others beyond the same ethnicity . 
ICTs could be designed to help immigrants easily interact with others outside of their ethnic community ( for instance , other ethnic immigrants ) , by allowing those who are comparatively newer in the host country to help one another . 
This could take the form of mentoring systems that pair up immigrants with members of other ethnic groups who are at a similar stage of settlement into their host country and encourage them to help each other ; or Q & A sites or resource‐sharing platforms across immigrant groups that immigrants could use to offer and ask for help , similar to the online forums where international health professionals help one another ( Komlodi et al. , 2016 ) . 
In this way , immigrants could interact with others who have recently faced and tackled similar problems and share both their experiences and tacit knowledge with members from many different cultural backgrounds . 
This may help immigrants to better gain and interpret certain types of information that requires background knowledge about the host country ( for instance , health and legal information ) , like the African refugees who codeveloped their own coping strategies to the unfamiliar health systems in Australia ( Lloyd , 2014 ) . 
A service like this would support immigrants ' information and socializing needs ( Quirke , 2015 ) , and eventually help them to be integrated into their host countries , which might be beneficial for social inclusion ( Mwarigha , 2002 ) . 
Some limitations of this study should be kept in mind . 
Because cultural value and immigrants ' existing knowledge of the country can influence their information needs , our results will likely not generalize across all immigrant groups . 
Also , our findings are based on 16 interviews with South Korean immigrants who emigrated to the U.S. within 3 years of the study , so our findings also may not speak to Koreans who emigrated to the U.S. earlier or have been living in the U.S. longer . 
Future research should consider more diverse samples of “ technology‐savvy ” immigrants with a variety of other social and cultural contexts ( for instance , Americans who moved to Tanzania , which has about a 5 % Internet penetration as of 2015 ) and explore how the prior experience of ICTs would affect immigrants ' information needs and seeking behaviors . 
We hope our preliminary findings provide insight for researchers and practitioners exploring similar issues in the general field of immigrants ' information behaviors . 
Overall , this study makes important theoretical and practical contributions by examining Korean immigrants ' information needs and seeking behaviors , as well as their ICT usage during the settlement process . 
Extending prior work on immigrants ' information behavior , we capture the more complex picture of information needs and seeking behaviors of Korean immigrants , and uncover an additional information need—to create a new social network in the new social context . 
Furthermore , we found that Korean immigrants needed to compromise with the ICTs infrastructure in the host country , and struggled to assess user‐generated contents , threatening the balance of “ glocal ” everyday lives . 
This allows us to conceptualize these ICT users as “ Had‐Mores ” —those who are accustomed to better and faster ICTs , but who no longer have access to the same infrastructure , extending the traditional division of “ Haves ” and “ Have‐nots. ” This opens up opportunities for future research on information behavior during changing cultural and social contexts after migration , particularly in consideration of prior ICTs experiences . 
As more people move from one society to another , which may or may not have comparable infrastructure and cultural and social contexts , it is increasingly important to understand and support immigrants ' information behavior in their settlement process . 
