Among our proposed methods , PI , PIE , and PAE outperform the existing methods in F 1 measure . 
PI improves the precision over Thread with a relatively high recall , and thus achieves the best F 1 performance , 0.612 . 
It is followed by PIE , which has a very close F 1 performance . 
PA achieves the highest recall , and it can also successfully retrieve all 28 across‐thread pairs . 
However , PA has the lowest precision . 
We investigate the data and find that many patients who participated in multiple discussion threads mentioned some adverse events not related to the drugs taken by them . 
By including drug‐AE pairs across threads , we introduce many false positives , and decrease the precision of PA . 
Fortunately , with experience mining , PAE improves the precision and achieves a much better F 1 performance . 
We notice that some techniques that are integrated into our system are not perfect . 
Consider the Stanford coreference resolution tool as an example , which achieves about 70 % F 1 performance in their report . 
It considers two person mentions , “ Sharon ” and “ My daughter , ” which occur in the same post and refer to the same person , as two different persons by mistake . 
The problem becomes even more serious because of the informal language used in a forum . 
For example , an acronym “ my DD ” can not be identified as the same person mentioned in “ my dear daughter. ” Such problems decrease the recall of our patient‐centered method . 
We also notice that the recall of PAE is decreased because of the integration of experience mining . 
In other words , experience mining introduced false negatives , that is , true ADRs that are missed by PAE . 
We investigate the reasons and present two false negative examples in Table 5 . 
In the first example , the sentence is labeled as not experience , which is likely because of the use of modal verb or the verb in its future tense . 
However , this example in fact implies that the patient probably has taken the drug and experienced the adverse reaction before . 
In the second example , the same patient took Aspirin and experienced palpitations , which is a true ADR for Aspirin . 
However , because the major part of the sentence containing “ palpitations ” is about a doctor 's suggestion instead of a patient 's personal experience description , it is not classified as experience by our experience mining component . 
Overall , PAE achieves a good balance between precision and recall for both evaluation with SIDER and human annotation . 
For evaluation with human annotation , PAE outperforms all the three baseline methods in F 1 measure . 
As shown in the latest survey articles ( Golder , Norman , & Loke , 2015 ; Lardon et al. , 2015 ; Karimi , Wang , Metke‐Jimenez , Gaire , & Paris , 2015 ) , recently adverse drug reaction discovery in online health forums has received growing attention from different research communities . 
The most related work is from Liu and Chen ( 2015 ) . 
Their methods focus on sentence‐level analysis in which the mention of a drug and its potential adverse event cooccur in the same sentence . 
They also show that manually distinguishing personal experience from hearsay can significantly improve the performance of identifying adverse drug events . 
Different from their work , we develop automated patient experience mining , and further propose techniques that consider patient as the semantic information unit for ADR discovery . 
Yang and Yang ( 2015 ) study ADR discovery in health forums based on thread‐level analysis . 
They use temporal analysis to identify ADR signals in their early stage . 
Some recent work uses probabilistic graphic models , such as topic models ( Wang et al. , 2014 ) , hidden Markov models ( Sampathkumar et al. , 2014 ) , and conditional random fields ( Yates et al. , 2015 ; Nikfarjam et al. , 2015 ) , to extract ADRs from free text in health social media . 
The analyses use sentences , posts , or threads as information unit . 
They are orthogonal to our proposed methods , and can be integrated into our system in place of cooccurrence analysis in the future . 
Yang and Yang ( 2014 ) use health forum data to mine drug‐drug interactions , which can be another potential application of our proposed methods . 
We have presented some initial findings about patient‐centered mining for effective search in health forums ( Liu & Chen , 2013 ) and context‐aware experience extraction ( Liu , Chen , Tang , & Liu 2015 ) in conferences . 
In this work , we extend the framework to make across‐thread association , integrate multiple modules in a holistic prototype system , apply and evaluate the system in real‐life applications for ADR discovery . 
There are other work mining health forums that are not directly targeting ADR discovery . 
Sondhi , Gupta , Zhai , and Hockenmaier ( 2010 ) use support vector machines and conditional random fields to classify the content of each sentence in a forum post into three types : symptom description , treatment description , or others . 
Such classification can be combined with our MetaMap or keyword list based methods to acquire more accurate health information labels . 
Subhabrata Mukherjee and Danescu‐Niculescu‐Mizil ( 2014 ) propose a probabilistic graphic model to establish the credibility of user statements in online health communities . 
Sampathkumar , Chen , and Luo ( 2015 ) present an ontology‐based visualization technique , which can be used to analyze patient 's profile and the health data in the ontology knowledge base . 
Such ontology knowledge can be integrated into our system for semantic information extraction and integration . 
In this article , we present novel techniques for patient‐centered mining and context‐aware experience mining , and a prototype system for effective ADR discovery . 
Experimental evaluation with both an official ADR knowledge base and human annotation has verified its effectiveness for ADR discovery . 
In future , we plan to explore the following two directions to further improve our system . 
First , we will learn to rank the potential ADRs discovered from health forums . 
We observed that drug‐AE cooccurrences within a thread , and occurrences in sentences that describe patient experiences are two important factors for ADR . 
We can thus assign these factors with higher weights in the ranking function . 
The challenge is how to set appropriate weights . 
We plan to learn an effective ranking function from the training data obtained from user studies . 
Second , we plan to explore machine‐learning techniques , such as the probabilistic graphic models , to identify the causal relationship between a drug and an AE within the same patient information unit . 
We will also explore other potential applications . 
As our proposed framework is based on semantic information unit , patients , it can be used as the foundation for evidence‐based social media mining and knowledge discovery . 
When a sufficient amount of data is available , we can provide patient‐centered statistics to researchers , such as the estimated number of patients who have had a specific disease or taken a specific drug . 
Our method can be used to avoid counting the same patient 's experience multiple times even if he/she is mentioned multiple times in different posts or threads . 
