Theoretical sampling was used to recruit from a private practice serving many African‐American women with hypertension . 
Women with experience sharing hypertension information were invited to participate in two focus groups . 
The participants ' blood pressures were controlled ( < 140/90 mmHg ) . 
See Table 1 for additional characteristics . 
The focus groups were audiotaped , transcribed , and verified . 
Investigators developed descriptive codes using open coding ( Saldaña , 2015 ) . 
Codes were then categorized and aggregated into emerging themes ( Auerbach & Silverstein , 2003 ) . 
To ensure reliability and credibility , consensus on the themes was achieved ( Boyatzis , 1998 ) . 
Transcripts were recoded into the agreed‐upon themes , which were compared and collapsed for clarity/conciseness ( Saldaña , 2015 ) . 
Validity of the results were member‐checked with five participants ( Lincoln & Guba , 1985 ) ; all concurred with the findings . 
This study had Institutional Review Board ( IRB ) approval . 
Participants argued the value of peer‐based information sharing : “ We speak the same language…we hear information better from one another because you know how to talk to me.… ” Most shared with female family members ( sisters/daughters ) , some also shared with their grandchildren . 
Friends were also a focus of sharing . 
Peers they shared with were not all hypertensive ; sometimes they shared to help prevent others from developing hypertension . 
The women shared diet , exercise , and medication adherence self‐management strategies . 
As Table 2 shows , they discussed adapting recommendations to match one 's preferences and physical capabilities . 
Additionally , they shared information on supplements and stress management . 
Benefits : Recipient The women preferred sharing in a group of peers : “ That 's where [ group ] you have a chance to really share information about how to manage high blood pressure and other things as we age. ” However , they noted one‐on‐one sharing was better for peers who are “ private ” : “ …those are the ones that we are really challenged to reach. ” When discussing online sharing , participants insisted that sharing must be done face‐to‐face . 
They were not frequent Internet users and were not interested in using it to communicate with family and friends ( Table 2 ) . 
One participant explained why texting was a poor strategy for reaching her : “ …you could send it to me…am I gon na read it ? 
I probably won't… ‘ cause I 'm not attached to a cell phone.… ” Participants believed information should be shared only when the recipient wanted help ( Table 2 ) . 
One participant described her inability to share with her daughter : “ I talk to her…she hangs up on me and she wo n't talk to me. ” Another described times she could not share with her husband : “ …he either do n't feel good that day or he 's feeling sorry for himself , but he wo n't talk about it. ” It was important to retreat when a message was poorly received . 
To share when someone is ready , the women said to “ take an opportunity whenever you get it. ” These opportunities arose at different times , including when one was approached with questions : “ My neighbor asked me… ‘ How did you… ? 
' ” Others proactively shared after a recipient 's change in health status , such as a hypertension diagnosis or hospital stay . 
Women shared information due to perceived benefits for both the recipient and the sharer ( Table 2 ) . 
Women wanted to help prevent high blood pressure in others or help those struggling to manage it . 
Helping others made them feel good about themselves . 
Moreover , participants felt that sharing helped to reinforce information for their own use . 
This study uniquely showed that participants used information sharing to reinforce information for themselves , which may explain the significant correlation information sharing and use for self‐management decisions ( Jones , Veinot , Pressler , et al. , 2017 ) . 
Women in this study shared information about self‐management of hypertension , the form of peer‐based health information called “ practical strategies ” ( Veinot , 2010 ) . 
These practical strategies involved “ translations ” of biomedical information into spiritual and family life ( Kaziunas , Ackerman , & Veinot , 2013 ) . 
This topical focus differs from prior research that emphasizes online searching among lay health information intermediaries ( Abrahamson , Fisher , Turner , Durrance , & Turner , 2008 ; Cutrona et al. , 2016 ) . 
As shown previously , participants stated that sharing information with others made them feel good about themselves ( Veinot , 2010 ; Wolf & Veinot , 2015 ) Participants felt that the group setting is best format for sharing information , and that one could only share information with peers that are “ ready. ” This resonates with the concept of “ network‐mediated information opportunity ” ( Veinot , 2009 ) , but extends the concept to include a new finding—an assessment of a person 's “ readiness ” for information . 
Participants assessed others ' readiness according to their mood and backed off if they were poorly received . 
They were available to answer questions when people were “ ready. ” They also seized opportunities to share after recent negative medical events . 
Building on current practices , an information‐sharing intervention could teach readiness criteria and related assessment skills . 
Similar to other studies , the findings showed that information sharing primarily occurs in close relationships that are already established , such as with family ( Abrahamson et al. , 2008 ; Cutrona et al. , 2016 ) . 
This suggests that interventions focus on these interactions rather than e‐communities for the unacquainted . 
None of these participants suggested sharing information online , which may be due , in part , to the mean age of the sample ( over 70 years ) . 
This contrasts with previous findings that those who share health information with others are more likely to search for , and create , online health information than those who do not ( Cutrona et al. , 2016 ) . 
Additionally , women who seek health information online are more likely to have better‐controlled blood pressures ( Jones , Veinot , & Pressler , 2017 ) . 
Thus , it is important to further assess older patients ' interest in online activities . 
We explored information sharing among African‐American women with hypertension . 
The study findings highlight women 's motivation to share blood pressure information , and its perceived benefits for both the information recipient and sharer . 
The findings also emphasize the practical focus of the shared information , and identify approaches and assessment practices that can profit sharing . 
Accordingly , it is a promising intervention strategy to promote information‐sharing activities by African‐American women with hypertension , while building on the approaches that work in their everyday lives . 
