Foursquare , is an example of a “ location‐based social network. ” The chapter provides in‐depth information for data collection , including details of the API , Foursquare data , and collection methods . 
The chapter discusses how research on Foursquare has advanced algorithm development pertaining to predication , marketing and anonymization , and social science research on urban gentrification and social segregation , and notes some issues pertaining to the validity of such data and bias of the user base . 
“ Facebook as a research tool in the social and computer sciences ” ( Chapter 37 , Jessica Vitak ) describes the now archetypal social networking site . 
The chapter provides a comprehensive look at research considerations for Facebook . 
Although some of this information may seem redundant for those well‐steeped in research , their inclusion is appropriate and makes a chapter that can stand alone for the many who come to Facebook as their first introduction to social media research . 
The chapter reviews the methods that have been used to study Facebook ( survey , interview , experimental design , data scraping , social network analysis , diary studies , usability ) and describes research considerations for studies . 
Many of these considerations are relevant to social science research in general ( sampling , recall , research ethics ; norms and context ) , but some are new for the social media world , such as algorithmic bias and collecting behavioral traces , and the way the ability to do this comes and goes with changes in Facebook features and restrictions on access . 
“ Big data and political science : The case of VKontakte and the 2014 Euromaidan revolution in Ukraine ” ( Chapter 38 , Anatoliy Gruzd and Ben O'Bright ) is an in‐depth look at how social media data support researching “ real world ” issues—social , economic , political ; and how and whether social media data reflect real world effects . 
The chapter takes us step‐by‐step through examination of whether or not geographic distribution of actors in the two pro‐Euromaidan/pro‐Western and two anti‐Euromaidan/anti‐West groups ( selected as the four largest online groups ) made a difference . 
The data did not show a correspondence between VKontakte data and the examined high‐level politics events , leading to discussion of how to continue with such research , and , as the authors say “ end [ ing ] this chapter with more questions than answers . 
