In the final chapter , “ A retrospective on state of the art social media research methods : Ethical decisions , big‐small data rivalries and the spectre of the 6Vs ” ( Chapter 39 , Luke Sloan and Anabel Quan‐Haase ) , the editors come back to summarize contributions around themes noted in the chapter title . 
The 6Vs , introduced at the start of the Handbook are the “ V ” s of big data : volume , variety , velocity , veracity , virtue , and volume ( now up to 10 by some counts ) , and deserve a revisit in the social media context . 
Both in the editors ' summary , and in all the chapters , we have been shown how social media is not ( just ) big data . 
It is data about behavior and it has its place before , during , beside , and after human action , but it is not data that will ever be a full encapsulation of human action . 
In reflecting on the full volume , there are some absences , and I note them only as impetus for a continuation of this book into further editions . 
Absences include research methods for social media ethics and research ethics , policy research on social media , methods for researching controversial topics , taboo , and illegal behaviors , methods , and issues for research on youth and other special populations , and critical analysis of content , accessibility , user base , etc . 
This is only to say that I find this a great resource on research methods that will build and sustain the social media community for a while to come , and I look forward to further editions as social media research continues to mature in its methods and approaches . 
Perhaps the first hurdle any volume on social media faces these days is defining what is included in this term . 
In their introduction , editors Luke Sloan and Anabel Quan‐Haase make clear that this is not a task of naming and listing applications , but rather of determining the attributes that have made social media something different , something worthy of its own classification separate from online social networks , virtual communities , and social networking sites . 
The editors favor “ social media ” as the larger category that embraces these former identifiers and the platforms they represent . 
In short , the definition includes “ the capacity to support user‐generated content , ” to “ provide a means for users to connect with one another , ” and to “ support various means for member to engage with one another in collaboration , community building , sharing , linking and other means ” ( p. 5 ) . 
Although one could quibble or question whether this includes or excludes certain media or combinations ( e.g. , blogging practiced in a broadcast manner , our old favorite e‐mail , or ad‐hoc idiosyncratic connectivist combinations of discussion boards , Twitter , blogs hanging together by local conventions of site naming and Twitter handles [ Siemens , 2005 ] ) , the focus on affordance over category is essential for focusing attention on the way these media ( in the plural ) have taken over . 
We could also reverse the question to ask what it is about these characteristics ( of content generation , engagement , community ) that have catapulted this phenomenon of social media to such prominence , in research and in daily practice . 
How does asynchronicity , 7/24 participation , peer production , global reach , and multi‐modal expression work with social media characteristics to effect , affect , replace , or augment social behaviors ; how does the availability of “ instant data ” on a massive scale change the questions that are , and can be , asked about social behavior ; are social media showing us the future rather than present or the past , for example , are studies of Massively Open Online Courses ( MOOCs ) and Massively Multiplayer Online Role‐Playing Games ( MMORPGs ) showing us the new normal , acting as test platforms for behaviors that will define future interaction norms ? 
Although the volume does not deal directly with research methods for examining emergent effects , focusing more at the mechanics and practicalities of getting reliable and valid information out of social media , the seeds are there in many chapters for more on what social media produces . 
Two further definitional aspects are set in the opening to the volume . 
First is the practice of referring to social media and social media data in the singular . 
Although this is a common practice , it tends to mask , in my opinion , the inherent plurality of the channels , differing as they do in affordances for the ability to “ support user‐generated content in forms such as images , text , videos and statuses ” as outlined in the definition of social media characteristics ( p. 5 ) . 
But also differing , as noted , in “ how the self is presented and to what extent the online identify of a user is crafted ” ( p. 6 ) , and I would add how the self is presented via each medium , and each mode ( text , image , etc. ) . 
The plurality is taken up in a few chapters , particularly those that address research on different modes of communication , and in research on multiple media . 
The second definitional aspect is the adoption of the term “ users ” for those who contribute to , participate in , and engage with social media . 
Although it is difficult not to use the term , it seems to perpetuate the idea of a separation of people and technology , where the latter affords only certain ways of interacting , and where use is evaluated based on human‐computer interaction user studies . 
An aspect not well discussed through these chapters ( albeit with some hint of it in chapters on qualitative , ethnographic research approaches ; e.g. , “ Twitter as method ” ) is the mutual construction of social use . 
Although users is an easy choice , what is a social media user , or what are social media users when their conversations , innovations , loyalty to the platform , critical mass , creativity , and more define the very social process that itself defines the norms and contexts of use . 
As I came to review this issue , I had several methodological issues in mind that concern me about the growing use of social media data : issues of representativeness that one medium , or even all social media , are enough to generalize to life in general ; how are expressions of the self different across media , and hence there is not one “ me ” in social media ; how are or should different scales of activity , modes , and languages be treated in research . 
But , perhaps my greatest concern has been the idea , bandied about a few years ago , that sampling was no longer necessary because with social media and big data we had the complete data set . 
Just listen to this quote from Computer Weekly referring to business analytics “ … if organisations are n't already thinking about phasing out sampling and other ‘ artifacts ’ of past best practices , they 're behind the curve. ” ( Swoyer , 2012 ) . 
So , it was with great delight that I saw authors in this volume , and particularly those on big data by Rob Kitchin , and on data from social media APIs by Dietmar Janetzko , effectively demolish the argument that big data and social media data provide a 360‐degree view of life , or that they ever will . 
The following gives a quick view of the chapters across the book . 
As noted , all are excellent chapters , and readers will want to take some time to explore more than one , and more than one section . 
I have no doubt that many will quickly become the most cited reference for methods in their area . 
This first section continues some of the situating work begun in the introduction , “ What is social media and what questions can social media research help us answer ? 
” ( Chapter 2 , Lori McCay‐Peet and Anabel Quan‐Haase ) starts us off by situating social media research issues across scope , ethics , and disciplines , and noting how we are in the process of developing scholarly practice around social media data and social behavior . 
These authors continue in a “ Building interdisciplinary social media research teams : Motivations , challenges , and policy frameworks ” ( Chapter 4 , Anabel Quan‐Haase and Lori McCay‐Peet ) , considering the need for interdisciplinary work , and the coordinations needed to bring interdisciplinary researchers together to address social media research . 
“ Big Data – Hype of Revolution ? 
” ( Chapter 3 , Rob Kitchin ) provides an excellent grounding in big data , with a very readable account of the “ end of theory , ” end of models , end of experiments discourse ( Anderson , 2008 ; Prensky , 2009 ) , then so neatly skewered by Kitchin with these four key points : big data are not exhaustive ; it does not arise from nowhere ; analyses come with interpretation ( and potential bias ) ; and context free interpretation is anemic without embedding in wider debate . 
But Kitchin does not abandon big data , advocating instead for data‐driven research that uses data to guide the identification of potential questions ( hypotheses ) worthy of further examination and testing . 
As he says , it is one thing to identify a pattern , another to explain it . 
In this way big data analyses can be seen as the foundation for future theory‐driven work . 
The remaining chapters in this section have a common focus on the users . 
I would have liked to have seen a comprehensive chapter of research ethics is this volume , and for those looking for that I recommend starting with the ethics reports from the Association of Internet Researchers ( https : //aoir.org/ethics/ ) . 
However , we have a useful new way to frame the issue of ethics and research in a participatory culture in the chapter “ Social media users ' views on the ethics of social media research ” ( Chapter 5 , Kelsey Beninger ) . 
In keeping with ideas of “ participants ” rather than users , this chapter asks about and addresses the user 's view of the ethics of social media research , bringing the actors into the ethics decision‐making process . 
“ The role of online reputation management , trolling , and personality traits in the crafting of the virtual self on social media ” ( Chapter 6 , Shuzhe Yang , Anabel Quan‐Haase , Andrew D. Nevin , and Yimin Chen ) , focuses on “ crafting the virtual self on social media. ” The attention to the user—contributor , participant , lurker—does raise the question of how close the virtual , social media self is to the nonsocial media self ( I 'd say compared to the “ real ” self , but the concept of where the real self resides becomes far too complicated ! 
) . 
In particular , how does “ writing oneself into being ” ( Yang et al. , citing Sundén , 2003 ) , reframe the being ? 
Is this being a little more than itself ( e.g. , “ profile as promise ” ala Ellison , Hancock , & Toma , 2011 ) or a little less ( e.g. , as we present just the social media‐side of our self ) ? 
“ Social science ‘ lite ’ ? 
Deriving demographic proxies from Twitter ” ( Chapter 7 , Luke Sloan ) , on deriving demographic data from Twitter helps to answer this question to some extent as results show gender shows common representation online and off in research comparing UK census and Twitter data . 
The chapter also demonstrates both the difficulties and progress made in automated ways of deriving demographic information . 
As important as understanding that big social media data are neither neutral or all defining , is that collecting “ everything ” because you can make for neither good research nor good outcomes . 
Chapters in this section ground us in data selection and collection issues , methods , and challenges , with an eye to standardization of practices in social media research , and calls for planning in the data management life cycle . 
The starting phrase in the title “ Think before you collect : Setting up a data collection approach for social media studies ” ( Chapter 8 , Philipp Mayr and Katrin Weller ) applies to many areas of social media research , and most particularly to social media research at the “ I can collect everything/anything ” stage of thinking . 
The authors outline issues of data collection methods , with consideration of platform terms of service ; type of data ( text , image ) ; purpose of the research ; which social media platforms to address ; whether looking at big or small data ; time period and data collection criteria ( e.g. , hashtags or handles ) ; and user IDs and their meanings . 
“ Overview – The social media data processing pipeline ” ( Chapter 9 , David M. Brown , Adriana Soto‐Corominas , Juan Luis Suárez , and Javier de la Rosa ) addresses the social media data management through phases of modeling , cleaning , and transforming . 
The chapter emphasizes : understanding the dynamics of the social media platform under study , for example , Twitter relationships of following and retweeting ; the major work phase of cleaning data , a process often underestimated in “ get answers quick ” studies of social media that fail to deal with missing data , typos , idiosyncratic spellings , duplicate records ( are retweets data or noise ? 
) , and some natural language processing ( NLP ) ways to remove what they have specified as unwanted elements in tweets ( # , http , RT , @ ; which , again , we may ask whether these are data or noise ) . 
“ The role of APIs in data sampling from social media ” ( Chapter 10 , Dietmar Janetzko ) takes up issues around the completeness of data drawn through public APIs—a simple example being the way the public APIs for Twitter set rate limits on the number of requests and retrievals . 
In all they make the valid point that “ the social data sampled from Twitter is not representative of any population that exists outside the world of Twitter … The holy grail of a representative sample is out of reach , and given the increase of bots and other fraudulent activities on social media this is not likely to change. ” ( p.159 ) . 
Like the earlier chapters , “ Data storage , curation and preservation ” ( Chapter 11 , Alex Voss , Ilia Lvov , and Sara Day Thomson ) emphasize planning , with attention to the social media data lifecycle , and having a data management plan from collection to legal compliance to storage , sharing , and curation . 
Planning is a much needed practice for reproducibility of results , and as more research granting agencies require more comprehensive research data management . 
`` Using social media in data collection : Designing studies with the qualitative e‐research framework ' ( Chapter 12 , Janet Salmons ) is a slight change of pace , describing a qualitative framework for e‐research data collection . 
The chapter presents a view of the diverse approaches to qualitative work , with six examples of such research on social media environments . 
Perhaps it is telling that the first ( major ) use of the term “ digital traces ” occurs in the opening chapter to this section . 
Although earlier chapters draw attention to the limitations of social media data with respect to a representative sample of either social media use or societal use , it is only here that we are presented with the much more subtle nuance of the word “ traces ” – social media data not so much as projections of persona , tweets across the bow , or deliberate marks of solidarity with close friends and family , but as leavings , detritus , like gum wrappers and banana peels , partially consumed hot dogs and buns ( I was writing this just after July national holidays ) , to be sniffed over and consumed by researchers . 
Missing , however , is consideration of the lurker , the ones who view but do not even leave footprints . 
Drawing on the classic qualitative perspective of thick description ( detailed , dense , textured , contextualized ) , “ Small data , thick data : Thickening strategies for trace‐based social media research ” ( Chapter 13 , Guillaume Latzko‐Toth , Claudine Bonneau , and Mélanie Millette ) , argues for applying to social media the kind of virtual ethnography and netnography first described for understanding online environments ( e.g. , Hine , 2000 ; Kozinets , 2010 , 2015 ) . 
This chapter is a good counter and follow‐up to the idea of “ trace data ” with a layered approach that adds thicker description , both personalizing and contextualizing social media data and experience ( e.g. , through “ trace interviews ” that ask interviewees to reflect on their own digital traces ) . 
An excellent review of qualitative methods and a significant contribution to our understanding of qualitative research in the age of big data . 
Responding to the challenge of managing , interpreting , and defining visual data , Chapters 14 and 15 focus on images , photos , and videos . 
“ Visuality in social media : Researching images , circulations and practices ” ( Chapter 14 , Martin Hand ) focuses on three aspects : the images , their circulation , and their use , including generation , sharing , remix , and reuse , and with a separate section addressing the selfie phenomenon . 
“ Coding non‐text data ” ( Chapter 15 , Diane Rasmussen Pennington ) notes that “ [ n ] on‐text data possesses the unfortunate disposition of being described as what it is not rather than what it is . 
” ( p. 232 ) . 
The chapter covers visual data , but also music . 
The chapter appeals to various methods applied to social media data to present a number of approaches , from analysis of composition , to content analysis , to cultural studies , semiotics and iconography . 
An excellent starting place for expanding social media analysis beyond the limitation of text . 
“ Twitter as method : Using Twitter as a tool to conduct research ” ( Chapter 16 , Bonnie Stewart ) gives us a deep ethnographic dive into one medium and its role in networked scholarship—a “ twitography ” if we like ( with no intention to diminish the importance of the author 's work ) . 
An excellent full account of recruitment , reflection , and observation practices in this newest of online platforms . 
“ Small stories research : A narrative paradigm for the analysis of social media ” ( Chapter 17 , Alexandra Georgakopoulou ) gave me my first introduction to “ small stories , ” those that “ present fragmentation and open‐endedness of tellings , exceeding the confines of a single speech event … [ and ] heavily co‐constructed ” ( p. 267 ) . 
The chapter makes the case for including in social media research attention to atypical narratives “ such as tellings of ongoing events , future or hypothetical events ” ( p. 267 ) . 
Perhaps most appealing to me is how this approach speaks to the real time nature of social media , and how small stories research can address the real time aspect of social media , for example , when participants engage with “ breaking news ” “ to share experience as it is happening ” ( p. 269 ) . 
The chapters in this section provide in‐depth , much needed , reflection of the meaning and application of different data and analytic techniques . 
“ Geospatial analysis ” ( Chapter 18 , Olga Buchel and Diane Rasmussen Pennington ) addresses the data and complex interdisciplinary use and meaning of geospatial data , emphasizing the need to know how “ social space interacts with geographic space ” ( p. 303 ) . 
Use of such data fits with recent trends in understanding the meaning of the local and locality in combination with online interaction . 
A synergy with this is found in Chapter 22 on attention to locality . 
Chapters 19 and 20 address approaches from social network analysis and predictive modelling . 
“ Pragmatics of network centrality ” ( Chapter 19 , Shadi Ghajar‐Khosravi and Mark Chignell ) provides a much needed examination of the nuance of different social network centrality measures and how these create different views of the data . 
“ Predictive analytics with social media data ” ( Chapter 20 , Niels Buus Lassen , Lisbeth La Cour , and Ravi Vatrapu ) highlights the difference between predictive and explanatory models . 
As predictions are increasingly used for planning across multiple settings , the more we need to know about what is and is not good practice in this area . 
“ Deception detection and rumor debunking for social media ” ( Chapter 21 , Victoria L. Rubin ) is a very timely chapter on a topic that will undoubtedly gain more research and application with issues from fake news to phishing detection . 
Included is a great list of blog credibility assessment factors from the author 's earlier work . 
The chapter provides us with pointers to previous research on deception , from psychology , law enforcement , and NLP . 
The chapter puts an emphasis on automated detection , a necessary response to the big data aspect of social media . 
But the chapter leads us to think also that similar attention needs to be paid to nonautomation , for example , in information literacy , and reader‐based heuristics . 
“ In analyzing social media for potentially deceptive content , it is important to apply methods that consider not just what is being said , but also how the message is presented , by who , and in what format and context. ” ( p. 359 ) , which is sound advice for determining bias in any social media content . 
This section collects together some different and nontraditional approaches to social media data and research , including attention to locality , multimodality , and pattern detection through sound . 
“ From site‐specificity to hyper‐locality : Performances of place in social media ” ( Chapter 22 , Nadav Hochman ) , takes a humanities view of the expression of location , and how online combines with offline to create hyper‐locality , either through hyper attention to a location , or augmenting social media postings with location information . 
The chapter is illustrated with attention to social media photos of street artist Banksy 's work in New York in October 2013 . 
“ Analysing social media data and other data sources : A methodological overview , ” ( Chapter 23 , Frauke Zeller ) is a chapter that could have gone in Part I , as another chapter that bridges the big data and social science and interpretation divide . 
The chapter advances a mixed method approach that considers multiple data sources , multimodality of data , and multiple analytical methods . 
As we spread our social media use across many platforms and modes , there will be increasing need to address problems with this kind of multimodal approach . 
“ Listening to social rhythms : Exploring logged interactional data through sonification ” ( Chapter 24 , Jack Jamieson and Jeffrey Boase ) opens up the area of auditory analytics . 
Although much is made of visualizations and visual analytics , using sound is not often considered . 
This chapter draws our attention to using our auditory senses to detect patterns , rhythms and anomalies . 
A very intriguing perspective , one I hope to hear more of [ pun intended ] in the future . 
In “ Innovative social location‐aware services for mobile phones ” ( Chapter 25 , Bernhard Klein and Ulf‐Dietrich Reips ) , the authors report on their mobile user generated geo services ( MUGGES ) system and its implementation , a system that allows users to create location based notes ( mugglets ) and hence new data for analysis . 
“ Mugglets ” ( yes , I like it ! 
) in their examples are shareable items ( notes , journal entry , route info ) associated with a geographical location and the users location . 
MUGGES provides both new data sources for research , and an application for users . 
This section takes us through a tour of platforms , applications , perspectives , and software for observing , using and analyzing social media . 
Each chapter provides details on using the described tool , as well as examples of use . 
“ COSMOS : The collaborative on‐line social media observatory ” ( Chapter 26 , Jeffrey Morgan ) , is a cross‐platform application designed for nonprogrammers to collect , visualize data from social media platforms , described with an example of combining Twitter with census data . 
“ Social Lab : An ‘ open source Facebook ’ ” ( Chapter 27 , Ulf‐Dietrich Reips and Pablo Garaizar ) , where the title says it all . 
Social Lab is free and available for use . 
“ R for social media analysis ” ( Chapter 28 , Simon Hegelich ) : R is a free programming language familiar to many for statistics and graphics ; this chapter provides a ( much needed ) hands‐on‐tutorial to analyze data from Twitter in R , opening up its use for those new to R and new to social media data . 
“ GATE : An open‐source NLP toolkit for mining social media ” ( Chapter 29 , Kalina Bontcheva ) , is a tool and a tool and chapter useful for those with some background in NLP . 
“ A how‐to for using Netlytic to collect and analyze social media data : A case study of the use of Twitter during the 2014 Euromaidan Revolution in Ukraine ” ( Chapter 30 , Anatoliy Gruzd , Philip Mai , and Andrea Kampen ) . 
The chapter explains the Netlytic platform for analysis of word use , concept coding , and social network analysis and visualization ; and how to follow unfolding political events through the example of the Euromaiden revolution . 
“ Theme detection in social media ” ( Chapter 31 , Daniel Angus ) , provides insight into methods and practices of visual text analysis , that is , the use of visualizations to observe and extract themes from text data , with an example of Twitter text analysis . 
The chapter emphasizes techniques rather than software , highlighting that it is the algorithms that matter , noting techniques from Leximancer for automated concept modeling process , and the application Discursis that applies the Leximancer automated concept algorithmic approach . 
“ Sentiment analysis ” ( Chapter 32 , Mike Thelwall ) , presents the software SentiStrength , but with in‐depth treatment of the limitations and pitfalls of analysis of social media posts because of short text , mixed sentiments in posts , interpretation of satire and irony , and practical issues of dealing with negatives such as “ I do n't hate you. ” This is discussed with examples of use in sectors such as marketing , politics , and health . 
Chapters in this section focus on one medium among the social media options , but each also provides thinking about the research process , perspective and challenges for Twitter , Instagram , Foursquare , Facebook , and VKontakte . 
“ The ontology of tweets : Mixed methods approaches to the study of Twitter ” ( Chapter 33 , Dhiraj Murthy ) , is more a presentation of the case for open coding , with details on how the author has used it for analyzing Twitter , than about Twitter itself . 
It argues for discovering themes using open coding over using closed coding schemes . 
“ Instagram ” ( Chapter 34 , Linnea Laestadius ) notes how analyzing this platform must wrestle with how to combine visual imagery with captions , hashtags , and comments , and that Instagram is not “ just Twitter with pictures. ” The visual is key : particularly notable is that research finds that comments are short ( 32 characters ) , and come nowhere near the permitted character limit ( 2,200 ) . 
Differences are also found between Instagram and Twitter in the use and meaning of hashtags , posting , friending , geotagging , and liking , and in user demographics . 
The chapter follows with a review of Instagram research methods and best practices , covering a lot of stages and research decision‐making points , highlighted with a case of electronic cigarettes on Instagram and the potential relevance to public health . 
“ Weibo ” ( Chapter 35 , Xiao Hu , Chen Qiao , and King‐wa Fu ) , and “ Foursquare ” ( Chapter 36 , Matthew J. Williams and Martin Chorley ) provide comprehensive coverage of these platforms from algorithms to use . 
Weibo is the generic Chinese term for microblogging in China , of which Sian Weibo is the most popular , and is generally referred to as Weibo . 
The chapter provides details of API use to collect Weibo data , a review of analyses using content analysis , and automated methods ( including details on how NLP approaches need to differ for Chinese ) , network analysis , and a review of studies on censorship , government use , disaster response . 
