In perspective B , the EN is viewed as an important resource in the preservation of videogames due to the contextual information it provides about the archived videogame itself , and of the relationship between the game and the ecosystem that comprises the videogame industry , player practices , community culture , and the framework of technology . 
By archiving the EN of videogames besides the software of the games themselves , the resulting archival collection contains a wider potential for use by virtue of its more diverse informational content . 
More significantly , the presence or absence of contextual information is directly related to the usefulness of the archived videogames as it affects their interpretability . 
The reviewed literature contains a range of formulations of how videogames as archival objects benefit from the contextual information provided by preserving the EN . 
Kraus and Donahue ( 2012 ) put forward the constant technological advancement of videogames as a reason why the documentation of context is important in videogame archives , even more so than in other record types . 
Reasons to archive the EN of videogames in order to safeguard information about the videogame ecosystem are put forward by , among others , Harviainen , Gough , and Sköld ( 2012 ) and Monnens et al . 
( 2009 ) , who focus on the entanglement of videogames with their related www-services and the structures of the videogame industry , respectively . 
In perspective B , relevant information also encompasses the reception of videogames , and the ways in which they were experienced and understood by players . 
Content pertaining to the “ superstructure ” of videogames—the patterns of production and marketing strategies of the videogame publishing industry and www-services that play key roles in videogame community communication and knowledge production—are also important . 
Examples of material types of priority are those with provenance in the videogame industry , videogame software and hardware , www-materials , reviews and videogame journalism , text and video recordings of gameplay , and game engine use . 
In perspective C , finally , the preservation of the EN is important for the scholarly work of interpreting present‐day society along with its recent history and development . 
The similarities with perspective B are notable : in both perspectives , the preservation of the EN is what allows archived videogame software to be viewed in relation with the contexts of videogame use and production as well as larger issues relating to technology , society , and culture . 
Anderson and Delve ( 2013 ) suggest that the preservation of the EN allows the archives to speak not only of the transient consumption of videogame entertainment , but also of important contemporary varieties of the innate human activity of play . 
Stuckey , Swalwell , and Ndalianis ( 2013a ) and Swalwell ( 2007 ) argue that videogame culture and memories of playing games are useful sources of information on the history of personal computing and the sociotechnical developments that led up to the role of digital technology in contemporary society and culture . 
Content in focus in perspective C encompasses , besides the already‐mentioned documentation of videogame culture and player memories , information about the development and publishing processes . 
Accounts of memories of videogame use , www-materials , documentation ( text , video ) of gameplay , in addition to videogame software and hardware , are prioritized materials . 
The findings of this review inform several directions for future work in the area of videogame archiving . 
Table 8 shows the main suggestions for further research along with tentative formulations of research questions , empirical contexts , and related literature . 
The suggestions are in line with the present study 's interest in the EN of videogames and research‐based development of the archival frameworks . 
A possibly rewarding direction for research concerns user‐generated types of evidence ( gameplay videos , www-materials , machinima ) , as indicated by the overall absence of discussions in the reviewed publications addressing how such materials come into being and the role they play in the videogame community . 
Research aiming to elucidate how important and commonly occurring processes in videogame communities—for instance , knowledge production and the regulation of gameplay—interconnect with the creation of relevant types of www-services-like wikis and walkthroughs—could inform the work of selection and more purposeful material collection in game‐preservation efforts ( see Barr , 2014 ; Newman , 2011 ; Sköld , 2013 , 2015 ) . 
Knowledge of how such important locations actually are used , and the activities that shape and sustain them , could inform the work of selection and appraisal in many ways , for instance in the configuration of web archiving efforts aiming to collect videogame‐related www-materials . 
The work of adapting core archival concepts and practices to videogame archiving is of great importance because it can provide a solid foundation for the advancement of the field ( e.g. , Lowood , 2009 ; Swalwell , 2014 ; Winget , 2011b ) . 
Starting from the fact that almost half of the texts reviewed in this study were conceptual in character , a plausibly fruitful approach in future work would be to complement conceptual efforts with empirical research . 
Winget 's ( 2011a ) study of players ’ collections of in‐game artifacts provides a good example of how empirical phenomena relevant to the preservation of videogames could be used as a kind of “ test‐bed ” for conceptual development by relating the findings to , for example , discussions of description , provenance , and authenticity . 
A major segment of the roadmap for research shown in Table 8 is “ Videogame archive studies , ” and it represents a knowledge gap in the literature . 
The purpose of this proposed research agenda is to examine current instantiations of videogame archives and the work that has created them , with the aim of discussing the findings in the context of best practice and concept‐focused videogame‐preservation research . 
Empirically , these studies would benefit from the fact that several videogame‐archiving projects are currently underway , like the ones described by McDonough et al . 
( 2010 ) , Newman and Simons ( 2009 ) , and Stuckey , Swalwell , and Ndalianis ( 2013a ) . 
The first of the three empirical focal points suggested in Table 8 is the constitution and collections of videogame archives , that is , finding out what videogames and related videogame materials the archives keep and how they are described . 
The second suggestion is to carry out studies of the needs and wants of different user groups . 
Third , the practices of archivists and curators working with videogame collections , along with shaping organizational factors , should be researched . 
Ideally , studies examining issues such as these would be carried out in different archives and different countries so that the local qualities of videogame archiving—like special interests , varying legal frameworks , differences of skill sets in the archival staff—would emerge in comparative analysis . 
Finally , the question that has guided the present paper also merits additional work . 
This review was carried out using the basic analytic instruments of a series of fundamental but general questions ( the precodification scheme , see Table 2 ) and the broad notion of the EN , encompassing culture , social structures , discourse , and more . 
A logical next step would be to explore in more detail the principal components of what here has been called the EN and their connections to videogame archiving practice and theory . 
A way forward here is to let research focused on exploring the nature of games inform the continued development of the videogame‐preservation terminology , for example , the wider discussion about games being both artifacts and processes ( e.g. , Wardrip‐Fruin , 2009 ) . 
This paper connects to the research tradition that finds inquiries aiming to make tangible the attributions of priority and the setting of boundaries at the center of every preservational activity as a valuable resource in progressive archival work ( e.g. , Cox , 2002 ; Gilliland & McKemmish , 2004 ) . 
Coming from this perspective , the present study investigates how videogames are construed as archival objects in the videogame‐preservation literature by way of a systematic literature review of 42 publications . 
The study aims to examine the drivers and motivations , selection of content and materials , and methods of archiving suggested in the archiving literature regarding the preservation of videogames in a generic sense ( Table 3 ) and—which is of primary interest in the present paper and its principal knowledge contribution—as products of culture and social activity ( Tables 4-6 ) . 
The study showed that the EN of videogames is construed in three principal ways in the reviewed archival literature : The EN as an essential part of the videogame as an archival object . 
The EN as a useful resource in the archiving of videogames , able to provide documentation of game culture and social context . 
The EN as a useful resource in inquiries focused on the current state and recent history of society and culture from a sociotechnical viewpoint . 
This rendering of what the EN of videogames in fact is in archival research is substantiated by an analysis that showed the connections between the aims and motivations of preserving videogames and the prioritizations of materials and methods that underpin the curation of archival videogame collections ( Table 7 ) . 
The study furthermore seeks to suggest directions for future work ( Table 8 ) , a road map that hopefully will prove to be a resource for empirical research and meta‐analysis in the area of videogame preservation in academic , professional , and player communities . 
The proposed directions for further empirical and conceptual study are videogame community dynamics , videogame ontology , the development of archival theory , and videogame‐archive studies . 
