Leadership is a major issue in organizations and gained more and more attention in the research literature ( e.g. , Bass , 2013 ; Behrendt , Matz , & Göritz , 2017 ; Tashiro , Lau , Mori , Fujii , & Kajikawa , 2012 ; Yukl , 1989 ) . 
It has been shown that a good management of leadership skills can improve employees ' engagement and satisfaction ( Bass , 1985 ) , as well as the positioning of the firm in the market , thus resulting in a higher level of organizational performance . 
Therefore , it is important for a firm to understand which leadership skills should be improved or better communicated to its stakeholders . 
A favorable perception of a firm can be considered a strategic asset , as it can influence the access to resources and ultimately affect business performance ( Van Riel & Fombrun , 2007 ) . 
Accordingly , we maintain the importance for company managers to monitor the reputation of their firms also online , and we offer , in this study , a specific focus on perceived leadership styles . 
Previous studies analyzed leadership‐related constructs in online environments , for instance investigating the dimensions of leadership in online communities via automated text mining ( Huffaker , 2010 ) , suggesting leadership behaviors on Twitter for crisis management ( Grubera , Smerekb , Thomas‐Huntc , & Jamesd , 2015 ) , or studying the association between leadership performance and social network positions ( Tashiro et al. , 2012 ) . 
On a similar trend , we analyzed the perceived leadership styles of five large Italian multinational companies , by investigating the discourse about their brands and activities on Twitter . 
The Twitter dialogue was explored by means of a specific support vector machine ( SVM ) , trained to automatically classify tweets according to the leadership dimensions defined in the work of Barchiesi and La Bella ( 2007 ) . 
We chose to analyze data from Twitter has it proved to be a valid media to engage stakeholders ( Lovejoy , Waters , & Saxton , 2012 ) and because data are freely accessible via the Twitter API , with much less constraints than other social media platforms such as Facebook.The text classification tool we propose in this paper can be useful for business leaders , to obtain a quick evaluation of the leadership styles of their company , for a specific timeframe , as emerging from the Twitter dialogue . 
Its strength mainly relies in the possibility to quickly collect and categorize huge amounts of text documents—tweets in this case , but other sources are possible . 
Traditional interviews and surveys have limitations and can suffer from several biases ( Podsakoff , MacKenzie , Lee , & Podsakoff , 2003 ) , which can be partially overcome by the analysis of more spontaneous comments about a company on Twitter . 
It is worth noting that , in our experiment , we were interested in assessing the perceived leadership styles of a company , as they might appear to the generic Twitter reader in a given timeframe . 
Accordingly , we did not perform a complete assessment of the communication and behavior of internal employees , or firm representatives , in comparison to external stakeholders . 
We analyzed the complete discourse about five companies , isolating the tweets that could be representative of specific leadership styles : for this reason , from now on we will always refer to leadership styles as they emerge from the Twitter discourse , as if a generic user would search a company name and read all the tweets in a timeframe . 
Thanks to our analysis , leaders could gain insights on whether their leadership style is suitable for the environment in which they operate or if there is a misalignment between real styles and what is discussed online . 
In the second section , we provide a brief introduction on the main leadership theories and recall the 10‐factor leadership model on which our analysis is based . 
The third section describes the data collection process and the methodology used . 
Results from our case study are discussed in the fourth section . 
In the last section , we discuss the managerial implications as well as the limitations of our method . 
Leadership is a wide concept which has attracted the attention of many scholars ( Bass , 2013 ; Yukl , 1989 ) . 
A review by Stogdill ( 1974 ) was already counting 3,000 leadership studies , with a great number of different approaches and perspectives in the exploration of the topic . 
More recently , Day and colleagues ( 2014 ) discussed methodological and analytical issues in leadership research , considering studies published during the past 25 years . 
One of the best known taxonomies in this field is the one introduced by Burns ( 1978 ) , who recognized two different types of leadership as opposites : transactional and transformational . 
The former deals with negotiation and exchange of something valuable between the leader and his/her followers to reach previously stated goals . 
This approach requires the leader to have the ability and the power to judge behaviors and consequently to bestow rewards or punishments ( Waldman , Bass , & Einstein , 1987 ) . 
Transformational leadership—on the other hand—is based on the leader 's vision of the future that can inspire and motivate his/her followers : an effective vision should leverage on high ideals and values and never involve negative emotions , such as fear or the feeling of being threatened . 
Moreover , the leader interacts with others in a mutual beneficial way , so that each person—including himself or herself—can reach higher level of inspiration , motivation , and self‐empowerment ( Bass , 1985 ; Conger & Kanungo , 1987 ; House , 1977 ; Podsakoff , MacKenzie , Moorman , & Fetter , 1990 ; Tichy & Devanna , 1986 ; Trice & Beyer , 1986 ; Yukl , 1989 ) . 
According to Burns ' vision ( 1978 ) , transactional and transformational approaches are mutually exclusive . 
Later studies ( e.g. , Bass , 1985 ) considered the possibility of an integration , with the leader adopting both styles at different times or under different circumstances . 
Bass ( 1985 ) recognized that both styles could be used to achieve goals , with one enforcing the other in such a way that a transformational leadership is likely to be ineffective in the total absence of the transactional style ( Lowe , Kroeck , & Sivasubramaniam , 1996 ) . 
In Bass ' vision , a transformational leader produces an effect on his/her followers by making them aware of the tasks to be accomplished , of their importance , of the possible ways to achieve goals , and by activating their higher order needs , making them transcend their self‐interests to focus on those of the organization ( Yukl , 1989 ) . 
Transformational leadership is generally recognized as a shared process : indeed , the leader influences followers to engage them in the mission of the organization ; simultaneously , the followers can influence one another and influence the leader 's behavior , as he or she faces resistance or positive responsiveness . 
The transformational leadership theory differs from leadership theories based on charisma ( Conger , 1989 ; Conger & Kanungo , 1987 , 1998 ; House , 1977 ; Shamir , House , & Arthur , 1993 ) . 
Bass ( 1985 ) considers charisma just as a component of the transformational leadership . 
The charismatic leader emerges as somebody who is trusted and respected—similarly to the transformational leader—with the additional attribution of some exceptional qualities or characteristics , which cause the followers to show an unquestioned acceptance of whatever the leader posits as a correct behavior . 
Influence has mostly a one‐way direction : from the leader to the followers . 
Charismatic leaders generally pose an appealing vision , show virtuous behaviors , make self‐sacrifices , take personal risks to reach the stated goals , are self‐confident , and are able to catch the attention of the followers with unconventional actions ( Yukl , 1989 ) . 
They are more likely to emerge in situations of crisis—actual or evoked—when people feel blocked and need a guide . 
To be more specific , we summarize the main characteristics of the presented leadership theories in Table 1 . 
Transformational leadership ( Bass , Avolio , Jung , & Berson , 2003 ) Transactional leadership ( Bass et al. , 2003 ) Charismatic leadership ( Conger & Kanungo , 1994 ) As regards the assessment of leadership behaviors , there were several attempts to develop questionnaires . 
In particular , Bass ( 1985 ) developed the Multifactor Leadership Questionnaire ( MLQ ) : through this instrument , subordinates can rate the frequency with which their leader uses transactional or transformational leadership behaviors . 
The MLQ was revised and extended several times ( e.g. , Bass , 1996 ; Bass & Avolio , 1990 ) . 
With regard to charismatic leadership , Conger and Kanungo developed the C‐K Scale ( Conger & Kanungo , 1994 , 1998 ; Conger , Kanungo , Menon , & Mathur , 1997 ) . 
Similarly , Shamir , Zakay , Breinin , and Popper ( 1998 ) developed a questionnaire that measures four behaviors involved in charismatic leadership . 
Once aware of the leadership profiles within a business company , it is also possible to investigate their impact on organizational performance . 
From this point of view , several studies agreed in stating that transformational leadership can foster employees ' satisfaction , motivation and performance ( Bass , 1985 ; Bass , Avolio , & Goodheim , 1987 ; Lowe et al. , 1996 ) . 
However , some discrepancies were found , and many weaknesses were identified in all the three theories . 
For example , Yukl ( 1999 ) highlighted an overemphasis on dyadic processes in transformational leadership : the major goal of this theory was to explain the leader 's influence on the individual follower , ignoring his influence at a group or organizational level . 
Similarly , some important transformational behaviors are missing in Bass ' ( 1996 ) theory and in the MLQ , such as the ability to inspire and empower the followers , to facilitate agreements about objectives and strategies , and to build group identification and collective efficacy ( Yukl , 1999 ) . 
Moreover , the choice of classifying leadership styles only considering the relationship between the leader and the followers was criticized , and a more integrated approach , that additionally includes external assessments , was proposed by Barchiesi and La Bella ( 2007 ) . 
A similar approach requires the involvement of the stakeholders in the evaluation process , considering leaders ' behaviors in different and complex situations : Indeed , it is very important to offer a view on the external perceptions , which can greatly differ from the internal assessments . 
Capitalizing on the presented theories , Barchiesi and La Bella ( 2007 ) developed a leadership model which includes 10 factors , classified in four different areas of action ( Figure 1 ) . 
Each factor is an important component of the leadership profile , which can be assessed both at the individual and at the firm level . 
Each factor pertains to one or more of the following areas : the Symbolic area , related to the use of symbols , the inspiration of stakeholders and the sharing of a vision ; the Behavioral area mainly focused on knowledge sharing skills and on the ability to manage human resources ; the Political area , concerning the political power and the negotiation skills of the leader ; the Structural area , related to the skills needed to maintain a functional structure of the organization and to effectively respond to external stimuli . 
According to the authors ' point of view , each leader 's behavior is reflected in a particular combination of the 10 factors , which can vary over time . 
Although experience shows that a full mastery in each of the 10 factors is difficult to achieve—and therefore rare—a good leader should be able to revise his/her use of the factors while acting change . 
The ten‐factor leadership model . 
A questionnaire has been developed to evaluate the strength of a single leader , or of a company , for each of the 10 factors ( Barchiesi & La Bella , 2007 ) . 
This questionnaire should be administered both to employees and external stakeholders , who can express judgments on a five‐point Likert scale . 
In the LI formula ( Barchiesi & La Bella , 2007 ) , vi represents the score on the i‐th factor of the model expressed on the Likert scale . 
Leadership profiles can also be explored to see if they are more focused on some of the four areas of action or if , on the other hand , they are more balanced ( see the example in Figure 2 ) . 
Balance in leadership styles . 
Although the 10 factor model proved to be effective in different business contexts and situations ( Barchiesi & La Bella , 2007 ) , it still relies on questionnaires . 
When questionnaires are collected by means of direct interviews , typically this process has several limitations , which span from the perceived costs for the interviewed—in terms of time spent and personal involvement for providing answers—to the actual costs and time spent to conduct the interviews , and to the risk of influencing the respondents ' answers . 
On the other hand , if questionnaires are administered through some electronic procedure , the costs and the complexity of the process are reduced , but this could result in a lower response rate and in less accurate answers depending on the full understanding of the survey questions . 
In general , there are several limitations of the survey based approaches ( e.g. , Podsakoff et al. , 2003 ) , which can be partially overcome using a text mining approach . 
The use of a big data approach can provide a rapid access to a wide range of stakeholders and , at the same time , allow a more rapid assessment than the one provided by traditional survey tools . 
A quick assessment can indeed be vital for a timely and effective decision making process ( De Mauro , Greco , & Grimaldi , 2016 ) . 
In particular , the automatic detection of Twitter messages related to a specific topic relies on different well‐known techniques ( Farzindar & Wael , 2015 ) . 
Among them , data mining and machine learning ( Hastie , Tibshirani , & Friedman , 2009 ; Murphy , 2012 ) , natural language processing ( Jurafsky & Martin , 2009 ; Manning & Schütze , 1999 ) , information extraction and text mining ( Aggarwal & Zhai , 2012 ; Hogenboom , Frasincar , Kaymak , & De Jong , 2011 ) , and information retrieval ( Baeza‐Yates & Ribeiro‐Neto , 2011 ) . 
In our study , we used a text mining approach , applied to the four main areas of the 10‐factor leadership model , following a research trend which already proved that online communication and behaviors can be linked to leadership profiles and performance ( e.g. , Grubera et al. , 2015 ; Huffaker , 2010 ; Tashiro et al. , 2012 ) . 
On Twitter , we analyzed the discourse about five large Italian companies considering both the statements of their employees and the interactions with and among the stakeholders . 
Twitter already proved to be a valid media to engage stakeholders ( Lovejoy et al. , 2012 ; Rybalko & Seltzer , 2010 ) . 
Besides accounting for everyday life stories , Twitter posts also report in real time local and global news and events . 
User‐generated contents can provide access to valuable knowledge and actionable information ( Farzindar & Wael , 2015 ) . 
Consistently , companies are making use of Twitter for a variety of purposes : advertising and recommendation of products and services , forecasting of economic indicators , sentiment analysis of users ' opinions about their products or those of competitors , increasing brand awareness and/or improving decision making and business intelligence ( Elshendy , Fronzetti Colladon , Battistoni , & Gloor , 2017 ; Farzindar , 2012 ; Hollerit , Kröll , & Strohmaier , 2013 ; Jansen , Zhang , Sobel , & Chowdury , 2009 ; Jiang , Yu , Zhou , Liu , & Zhao , 2011 ; Pak & Paroubek , 2010 ) . 
Twitter has also become one of the most used social media for official public relations , advertising , and marketing campaigns ( Seltzer & Mitrook , 2007 ) . 
In our context , statements of the stakeholders about a company can unveil perceived leadership styles and eventually draw the attention of managers on misalignments between perceived and expected styles . 
Our results can help companies to improve their online communication , thus fostering and creating the understanding and trust that are necessary to encourage others to follow a leader . 
“ Leadership communication is the controlled , purposeful transfer of meaning by which leaders influence a single person , a group , an organization , or a community ” ( Barrett , 2006 , p. 389 ) . 
Our case study started with the collection of tweets about the 30 Italian organizations in the 2015 list of Forbes Global 2000 . 
Tweets were automatically collected over a period of three nonsequential weeks that span from December , 2015 to February , 2016 . 
We used the Twitter fetcher included in the semantic and social network analysis software Condor,11 http : //www.galaxyadvisors.com/products/ which allowed us to go back in time with the data collection up to 10 days ; in this way , for each week of data collection , we could fetch 17 days of tweets ( for a total of 51 days analyzed ) . 
The total volume of collected tweets is 46,657 , with an average number of 15,552.33 tweets per each block of seventeen days and a standard deviation of 5,165.54 . 
All the collected tweets were written in Italian . 
In a second phase , our attention focused on five out of the thirty companies , as they represented more than 90 % of all the collected tweets in the first week of the analysis . 
These companies are Telecom Italia ( now known as TIM ) , Eni , Enel , Unicredit Group and Pirelli & C. In this experiment , we did not distinguish between tweets posted from CEOs , communication departments , or external stakeholders . 
Our aim was to provide a complete evaluation of the Twitter discourse about a company , regardless of the content sources , to assess the perceived leadership styles for a generic reader of Twitter . 
However , we removed from our sample a small proportion of tweets ( less than 0.5 % ) coming from spammers ( or Twitter bots ) . 
The detection of spammers , which can be automatized ( Banerjee , Chua , & Kim , 2017 ; Zheng , Zeng , Chen , Yu , & Rong , 2015 ) , in this case has been carried out manually , according to the principles described in the work of Stringhini , Kruegel , and Vigna ( 2010 ) . 
As our automatic classifier was not able to distinguish between positive and negative tweets in each leadership area , we carried out a preliminary sentiment analysis of the collected tweets , using the software Condor . 
From the analysis , it resulted that less than 1.5 % of tweets had a negative sentiment . 
Being this number relatively small and almost evenly distributed ( a little bit more for Eni , involved at the time in a journalistic inquiry ) , we decided to filter out these tweets . 
As a proposal for future research , we intend to refine our classifier , including an internal sentiment analysis of the tweets , with an algorithm trained on leadership‐related semantic contexts . 
As a second step of the analysis , we used the Natural Language Toolkit ( NLTK ) developed for the programming language Python 3 ( Perkins , 2014 ) , to preprocess the collected tweets , identify tokens , substitute capital letters , remove stop‐words ( such as conjunctions ) and extract stems . 
Many stemming algorithms could be used ( Jivani , 2011 ) ; in this case study , we chose the Snowball Stemming , which is included in the NLTK package and is also available for the Italian language . 
The stemming of tweets helped us to reduce the number of features , that is , to reduce the vocabulary , allowing a better accuracy of the classifier . 
To give a general example of the above‐mentioned preprocessing steps , one could imagine , to start with , the following tweet : “ At five thirty on Monday morning Luca was very relaxed ” “ At five thirty on Monday morning Luca was very relaxed ” Once processed , the tweet would be transformed into the following list of words : [ “ five , ” “ thirty , ” “ Monday , ” “ morn , ” “ luca , ” “ relax ” ] [ “ five , ” “ thirty , ” “ Monday , ” “ morn , ” “ luca , ” “ relax ” ] Following this procedure , we combined the pre‐processed tweets to obtain a large matrix with as many rows as the tweets in our sample and as many columns as the words in the complete vocabulary extracted from the tweets . 
Each element aij in the matrix had the value of 1 if the word represented by the column j was included in the tweet at the row i , and the value of 0 otherwise . 
Using this matrix in a machine learning algorithm would present the problem that each term would have the same discriminatory power in determining the class of a tweet . 
Indeed , there might be words that recur in almost every tweet , being almost useless for the classifier . 
To attenuate this effect , we transformed the matrix using the Inverse Document Frequency function ( IDF ; Ounis , 2009 ) . 
Subsequently , we used a text classification technique to assign the collected tweets to five different clusters : one cluster for each of the four leadership dimensions—symbolic , behavioral , political , and structural—and a fifth one called “ none of the others. ” A single tweet could also be assigned to multiple clusters . 
Indeed , the five are not mutually exclusive : Tweets , even if their length is limited , can contain ideas , opinions , and statements that can pertain to more classes . 
This is even more likely to happen as the four areas are in some parts overlapping . 
The only class which can not coexist with the others is the fifth one . 
To start the supervised classification , we built a training set made of 3,000 tweets , randomly extracted from the collected ones—1,000 tweets per collection period . 
The tweets in the training set were manually classified by three independent annotators and their agreement for each label has been measured by means of Cohen 's Kappa . 
Values of Kappa ranged from a minimum of 0.77 to a maximum of 0.83 , thus denoting a good level of inter‐annotator agreement . 
The tweets that presented divergent annotations were reexamined by the three experts together , to converge on a single classification . 
To give an example , the tweets sharing the vision of a company or discussing it in a positive way were classified as tweets of the symbolic area ; on the other hand , tweets dealing with the creativity of a company have been classified with two labels ( political and behavioral ) . 
Many algorithms are available for text classification , such as Naive Bayes ( Lewis , 1998 ) , Nearest Neighbor ( Yang , 1999 ) , Neural Networks ( Ozmutlu , Cavdur , & Ozmutlu , 2008 ) , Rule Induction ( Apte , Damerau , & Weiss , 1994 ) , and Support Vector Machines ( SVM ; Vapnik , 2013 ) . 
SVM were included among the most effective classification techniques , with the additional advantage of being more generalizable than others , such as decision trees ( Lee & Lee , 2006 ; Wang , Sun , Zhang , & Li , 2006 ) . 
The best choice in our case study has been to use a SVM algorithm with a Radial Basis Function ( RBF ) kernel . 
In order to train and execute the SVM classifier we used the package Scikit‐learn which comprises several tools for data mining in Python 3 ( Pedregosa et al. , 2011 ) . 
To solve the multilabel classification problem , we implemented a series of independent binary SVM classifiers , each one associated to a specific label . 
Therefore , each classifier defined whether a label was associated to a class or not . 
The fifth class has been filled in with the tweets that were not classified in one of the other four clusters . 
In this way , none of the tweets was left without a label . 
In addition , we tested a binary classifier for the “ none of the others ” cluster , to compare these results with the previous strategy . 
Results showed no significant differences . 
Each binary classifier was optimized separately , calibrating the parameters C and γ of the RBF kernel , as allowed by the Scikit‐learn package ( Pedregosa et al. , 2011 ) ; subsequently , the classifiers were used to train the SVM for the multi‐label classification . 
The final multi‐label classifier showed good fit indexes , with a subset accuracy of 0.779 , a micro‐F1 of 0.804 , and a macro‐F1 of 0.741 . 
About the binary classifiers of the five clusters , accuracy ranged from a minimum of 0.841 ( cluster “ none of the others ” ) to a maximum of 0.942 ( cluster “ political ” ) and F1 ranged from 0.678 ( cluster “ behavioral ” ) to 0.872 ( cluster “ none of the others ” ) . 
As previously mentioned , we selected the following large Italian companies , as they had the largest volumes of tweets in our data collection : Telecom Italia ( now known as TIM ) , Eni , Enel , Unicredit Group and Pirelli & C. Here we provide a better introduction to them , together with some information which could partially relate to the study results . 
Telecom Italia is a large telecommunications company operating in Italy and abroad . 
It was founded in 1994 by the merger of several state‐owned telecommunications companies . 
In 1995 TIM was founded as a mobile telephony company which was later incorporated by Telecom Italia . 
A rebranding process , started in 2015 , led the brand “ TIM ” to substitute the name of “ Telecom Italia. ” Since 2010 Telecom Italia‐TIM begun to provide customer service through social caring , characterized by a quick and direct interaction with customers over Facebook and Twitter . 
This effort led TIM to several acknowledgements : as an example , according to SocialBakers22 https : //www.socialbakers.com/free‐social‐tools/socially‐devoted/q3–2016/ TIM has been in the fifth position worldwide in terms of help replies for the fourth quarter of 2015 and for the first two quarters of 2016 . 
