The number of collaborative studies in different scientific fields has been increasing for decades ( Newman , 2004 ; de Solla Price & de Beaver , 1966 ) . 
As pointed out in Bozeman and Boardman 's ( 2014 ) “ collaboration imperative , ” more than 90 percent of the publications in science , technology , and engineering feature more than one author . 
Indeed , collaboration has become mandatory in many fields , where research success depends heavily on teamwork between scientists with mixed skillsets , such as between theoreticians , and those experienced with lab experiments . 
A team consisting of these scholars may have an advantage in terms of research innovation and success than each individual working alone ( Bozeman & Boardman , 2014 ) . 
Scientific collaboration not only enhances the quality of research ( Kumar & Ratnavelu , 2016 ) , but also breeds innovation ( Ding , 2011 ) , making it crucial to a successful scientific career . 
The old saying— '' standing on the shoulders of giants '' —tells us that scholars should collaborate with authoritative authors ( experienced researchers or expert in a domain ) because they can provide profound knowledge , experience , and resources ( Adegbola , 2013 ) . 
Many scholars try to meet and work with authoritative authors in their domains in hopes that it might lead to a better scientific career ; But because of advanced age or cost issues concerning their research , these experienced researchers , being often well‐established and invested in their own study and status , are not necessarily anxious to try new ideas ( Packalen & Bhattacharya , 2015 ) , an attitude that can impede innovation ( Chinchilla‐Rodriguez , Ferligoj , Miguel , Kronegger , & de Moya‐Anegon , 2012 ) . 
This circumstance begs the question : Should scholars seek to collaborate with experienced researchers ? 
If so , should they only focus on collaborating with experienced researchers ? 
We use the h‐index ( Hirsch , 2005 ) to measure the impact of authors ' collaborators and the normalized standard deviation ( NSD ) of their h‐indices to measure the impact diversity of their collaborators . 
We find that although high‐impact scholars often collaborate with experienced researchers , the impact of collaborators on these high‐impact authors are diverse . 
Many studies have pointed out that transdisciplinary scientific collaboration can allow researchers to exchange innovative ideas and methods in various fields ( Bridle , Vrieling , Cardillo , Araya , & Hinojosa , 2013 ; Xu , Ding , & Malic , 2015a ; Ding & Stirling , 2016 ) . 
An interconnected world needs new approaches to intellectual inquiry that can challenge common disciplinary and institutional boundaries ( Davoudi & Pendlebury , 2010 ) . 
On the contrary , others have illustrated some of the drawbacks of cross‐disciplinary study , such as being more time‐consuming ( Schaltegger , Beckmann , & Hansen , 2013 ) . 
Other obstacles include attitude , communication ( e.g . 
jargon , intellectual turf , leadership , facilitating interactions ) , and academic and professional barriers ( e.g . 
publications and professional organizations , funding , peer review , and career development and training ) ( Institute of Medicine , 2000 ) . 
These studies , however , generally focus on the discipline or domain level . 
Although there can be many different topics within a discipline or domain , the relations between these topics in terms of researchers ' impact have not been deeply explored in studies of collaborator diversity . 
In this article , we analyze the collaborators ' research diversity at the topic level , using the Author‐Conference‐Topic ( ACT ) model ( Tang , Jin , & Zhang , 2008a ) to extract the authors ' topic distributions and cosine to measure the diversity . 
The results of our empirical studies show that high‐impact authors have a tendency to collaborate with those having different research topics . 
In other words , the research topics of high‐impact scholars ' collaborators are more diverse compared with the collaborators of those authors having lower impact . 
Scientific collaboration can be distinct depending on the stage of researchers ' scientific careers . 
When researchers pursue a PhD , for example , they may be eager to collaborate with top scholars , that is , authoritative authors ( AAs ) , in their domains to gain valuable experience and enhance their careers . 
After graduation and while working in universities or other research institutes , researchers may spend more time with their students or postdocs to accomplish projects or produce publications . 
As their research interests evolve over time , they may also collaborate with new researchers ( Baker & Pifer , 2011 ) . 
Identifying all of these changes in scientific collaboration could be relevant or important to career trajectory because they may provide temporal clues for a successful career . 
In this article , we analyze high‐impact researchers in the field of computer science before and after their PhD graduation—an important milestone of their scientific careers—to identify important indicators to their success at different stages in their careers ( Costas , Nane , & Larivière , 2015 2015 ) . 
We find that these high‐impact authors prefer to collaborate with many researchers , and also have extensive experience working with authoritative authors before their PhD graduation , but they generally regard collaborations with non‐authoritative authors as an important focus of their studies after receiving their doctoral degrees . 
This article is outlined as follows . 
Related work is discussed from the perspective of scientific collaborators ' research topic diversity , collaborators ' impact diversity , and scientific collaboration among different stages of researchers ' careers . 
The data set and methodology used in this article are then described . 
Results are discussed and compared with existing related studies . 
Finally , conclusions and suggestions for future work are offered . 
Many researchers have demonstrated the relation between authors ' research interests and their scientific collaboration . 
Applying qualitative methods such as interview and observation , Kraut , Egido , and Galegher ( 1988 ) found that scientists ' sharing of similar research interests encourages ongoing collaboration . 
However , limited by the development of quantitative algorithms for extracting the researchers ' research topics/interests , such research has long stayed at a qualitative level . 
Newman ( 2004 ) used network science theories and methodologies to analyze coauthorship networks , and proposed that different disciplines feature distinct distributions of collaborator numbers for scientists in biology , physics , and mathematics . 
Different from previous studies in which domain‐ or discipline‐level information is applied as the measurement of authors ' research interests ( Newman , 2004 ; Milojević , 2010 ) , Ding ( 2011 ) mined topic‐level information into a coauthorship network analysis using the Author‐Conference‐Topic ( ACT ) model proposed by Tang et al . 
( 2008a ) . 
She found that in the information retrieval field , productive authors prefer to collaborate with those with whom they share similar research interests . 
By employing Exponential Random Graph Models ( ERGMs ) and the ACT model , and including all‐impact authors in the field of information retrieval instead of only the productive authors per Ding ( 2011 ) , Zhang , Bu , and Ding ( 2016 ) concluded that research topic similarity does not necessarily affect which scholars one author will collaborate with . 
Besides the field of information retrieval , research interest similarity/diversity of collaborators has also been studied in library and information science ( Huang & Chang , 2011 ) , health sciences ( Lee , McDonald , Anderson , & Tarczy‐Hornoch , 2009 ) , the social sciences ( Bredereck et al. , 2014 ) , and cognitive science ( Derry , Schunn , & Gernsbacher , 2014 ) . 
Other similar studies exploring the relationships between authors ' research interests and their scientific collaboration include those of Huang , Zhuang , Li , and Giles ( 2008 ) , Bird et al . 
( 2009 ) , and Sie , Drachsler , Bitter‐Rijpkema , and Sloep ( 2012 ) . 
Although collaborating with researchers who do not share the same interests may be more time‐consuming , error‐prone , and resource‐intensive ( Schaltegger et al. , 2013 ; Xu et al. , 2015a ) , several studies claimed that diverse research topics of collaborators offer many potential benefits ( Stokols , Harvey , Gress , Fuqua , & Phillips , 2005 ; Wickson , Carew , & Russell , 2006 ; Kessel & Rosenfield , 2008 ; Pohl , 2007 ; Adegbola , 2013 ) . 
For example , Pohl ( 2005 ) , who studied collaborators ' topic diversity in environmental research using qualitative interviews , argued that most thinking about collaborators with diverse research topics takes place at the level of program management and problem solving . 
Xu et al . 
( 2015a ) posited that in problem‐oriented fields , transdisciplinarity—which essentially requires some levels of research topic diversity of collaborators—is regarded as a means to solve complex research questions through a broader exchange of ideas , theoretical approaches , and best practices ( Bridle et al. , 2013 ) . 
Most of these studies , however , were either qualitative in their approach or ignore the correlations between researchers ' success ( impact ) and research interest diversity of their collaborators . 
To effectively address this gap , this article explores the relationships between the impact of the researchers as well as the degree of their collaborators ' research interest diversity to quantitatively measure the collaborators ' research interests at a topic level . 
Research focusing on the similarity and diversity of researchers ' impact and their scientific collaborations has been explored in two main branches of study . 
The first branch mainly demonstrates the relation between collaborators ' productivity and collaboration , where de Solla Price and de Beaver ( 1966 ) , for example , investigated the collaboration of informal publications ( mostly article preprints ) between members in health‐related domains . 
They found a correlation between the authors ' number of publications and their number of collaborative articles . 
Zuckerman ( 1967 ) indicated that the higher an author 's number of scientific collaborations is , the more articles he/she publishes . 
Pravdić and Oluić‐Vuković ( 1986 ) explored the relations between scientific output and collaboration in the field of chemistry and found that authors ' productivity is dependent to a large degree on the frequency of their collaborations . 
Ebadi and Schiffauerova ( 2015 ) investigated the roles of researchers occupying important positions in the collaboration network and discovered that highly productive researchers not only have many collaborators but also perform an essential role in connecting other researchers in a network . 
The second main branch of studies illustrates the relation between collaborators ' number of citations and their collaborations . 
For example , Thurman and Birkinshaw ( 2006 ) found that the number of citations is significantly correlated with the number of coauthors for the six top journal articles in the field of medicine . 
Leimu and Koricheva ( 2005 ) , however , did not find a significant positive correlation between the influence of collaborations and the impact of the resulting work in the field of ecology . 
Similarly , Ding ( 2011 ) argued that authors with a large number of citations do not generally coauthor with each other in the field of information retrieval . 
Different from previous research that has largely focused on the article level , Zhang et al . 
( 2016 ) 's analysis at the author level found that the number of citations one author has received does not influence other authors ' collaboration preference for him/her . 
Similar studies concerning the similarity/diversity of researchers ' impact and their scientific collaborations include those of Pao ( 1982 ) , Lee and Bozeman ( 2005 ) , and Freeman and Huang ( 2014 ) . 
Some scholars have identified the relation between researchers ' scientific impact and their collaborators ' impact diversity . 
Adegbola ( 2013 ) argued that multi‐ethnic , diverse scholars working collaboratively can benefit each other through creating innovation and actions that reduce research disparities , a process that also provides the potentially profound knowledge and experience in working with giants in a domain . 
These scholars can thus grow as rising stars by collaborating with high‐impact authors , pushing them into better domain development ( Kram & Isabella , 1985 ; Quatman & Chelladurai , 2008 ; Adegbola , 2010 ; Amjad et al. , 2017 ) . 
Similar studies focusing on the relationships between researchers ' scientific impact and their collaborators ' impact diversity include those of Dannefer , Uhlenberg , Foner , and Abeles ( 2005 ) , and Mccaughrean , Zinnecker , Andersen , Meeus , and Lodieu ( 2002 ) . 
At the beginning of a career , scientific collaboration typically involves advisor‐advisee relationships . 
At this early stage in their careers , researchers are usually doctoral students who take responsibility for the predominant research load while their mentors provide guidance ( Kumar & Ratnavelu , 2016 ) in this mentoring relationship ( Hart , 2000 ) . 
Muschallik and Pull ( 2016 ) pointed out that such relationships help increase the productivity of advisees . 
Under this stage , if junior researchers can build new contacts they might obtain more opportunities to establish collaborations and work on new projects ( Wang et al. , 2010 ) . 
Although several of these studies concluded that collaboration with a senior researcher is helpful for the career of the junior scholar , Packalen and Bhattacharya ( 2015 ) argued that senior researchers , especially older experienced researchers , are seldom open to investigating new ideas . 
Specifically , when researchers become older or more established , their scientific collaborations are indeed subject to change . 
Hamermesh ( 2015 ) observed different research styles of older researchers compared with those of the younger researchers , which might be attributed to different “ interpersonal relationships ” as well as skills ( Krapf , 2015 ) . 
Kumar and Ratnavelu ( 2016 ) found that researchers who have spent more than ten years in their current affiliations had a smaller proportion of scientific collaborations then those who did not . 
Studies exploring scientific collaboration during different stages of scientific careers include those of Holgate ( 2012 ) , who proposed that young scholars should identify the “ key people ” in a collaboration and develop lasting relationships with them , especially with authoritative authors in a domain at the beginning of one 's research career . 
Using examples from French scientific leaders from 1799 to 1830 , de Beaver and Rosen ( 1979 ) illustrated that collaborative associations with elite members in France had facilitated the visibility of the young scientists . 
Luukkonen , Persson , and Sivertsen ( 1992 ) showed the significance of international scientific collaboration for both junior and senior scholars in terms of cognitive , social , historical , geopolitical , and economic factors . 
Loannidis , Boyack , and Klavans ( 2014 ) analyzed uninterrupted and continuous presence″ ( UCP ) —the phenomenon of maintaining a continuous stream of publications—for researchers in the entire Scopus database and argued that different collaborators in distinct stages of careers may affect researchers ' UCP . 
Yet few studies have addressed the changes in scientific collaboration as well as how to benefit from different scientific collaborations during different stages of researchers ' careers . 
This article divides the careers of the researchers in the field of computer science into two parts , before and after PhD graduation , and identifies important scientific‐collaboration‐related indicators to their success in each career stage . 
The data set used in this article is derived from the AMiner platform ( Tang et al. , 2008b ) which contains scientific publications in the field of computer science within the Association for Computer Machinery ( ACM ) from 1936 to 2014 . 
It contains 2,092,356 articles , 1,207,061 unique authors , and 8,024,869 citation relationships . 
For author name disambiguation , we apply Tang , Fong , Wang , and Zhang ( 2012 ) 's algorithm , in which a unified probabilistic framework is proposed employing Markov Random Fields ( Kindermann & Snell , 1980 ) and the number of actual authors are estimated . 
Both content‐based information and structure‐based information are considered as features with corresponding weights , where two parameter estimation steps are included to disambiguate the authors ' name , that of estimating the weights of feature functions and assigning articles to different authors . 
Figure 1 displays the relation between the logarithm of the authors ' h‐indices and the logarithm of the number of authors with the same h‐index , where they show an approximate power law distribution . 
We select as high‐impact authors those with h‐indices greater than or equal to ten , in order to better analyze high‐impact authors and identify how their careers developed before and after PhD graduation . 
Finally , 8,621 authors are selected to form the author set in the analysis of “ Scientific Collaboration before and after Ph.D. Graduation ” section . 
Authors ' h‐indices and the number of authors with the corresponding h‐index in the data set ( log‐log scale ) . 
[ Color figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com ] This article separately explores three topics , the first being the relation between the impact of researchers and the topic diversity of their collaborators , measured using the Author‐Conference‐Topic ( ACT ) model ( Tang et al. , 2008a ) . 
Another topic is the relation between the impact of the researchers and the topic diversity of their collaborators , measured using the normalized standard deviation of h‐index ; note that the topic/impact diversity here is calculated among the scholar 's collaborators instead of between the scholar and his/her collaborators . 
The last topic is the different patterns of scientific collaboration before and after PhD graduation , for which we apply Exponential Factor Analysis ( Cattell , 1965 ) to visualize and analyze various selected impact indicators . 
Figure 2 shows the graphic notation of the ACT model used in this study , in which d represents document , w is word , is the publication venue of the document , ad is the set of coauthors , is the number of word tokens in document d , x is the author , z is the topic , , , and are number of unique authors , number of topics , and number of documents , respectively , α , β , and μ are hyper parameters , θ and φ are multinomial distributions over topics and words , respectively , and ψ is a multinomial distribution over publication venues ( Tang et al. , 2008a ) . 
In the output of the ACT model , each author is represented as an m‐dimension vector , and each component of the vector represents the distribution possibility of the author on this topic . 
By employing the ACT model , we can obtain the topic distribution of each author , shown as vectors . 
The Author‐Conference‐Topic ( ACT ) Model ( Tang et al. , 2008a ) . 
[ Color figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com ] We select several collaboration‐related indicators of high‐impact authors to identify the different roles these indicators play during different stages of scientific careers . 
Specifically , Table 1 shows the indicators that can be divided into three types : general indicators ( Type I ) , including the number of publications , the number of citations , and h‐index ; indicators showing scientific careers before PhD graduation ( Type II ) ; and indicators showing scientific careers after PhD graduation ( Type III ) . 
Type II and III indicators include : simple indicators , such as the number of publications/citations before/after PhD graduation ; collaboration with authoritative authors ( AAs , see details in the end of this paragraph ) before/after PhD graduation , such as the number of collaborations with AAs and the number of unique non‐AA collaborators ; collaboration with non‐authoritative authors ( non‐AAs ) before/after PhD graduation , such as the number of collaborations with non‐AAs and the number of unique non‐AA collaborators ; the number of single‐authored publications before/after PhD graduation , and ; the impact of different types of collaborations before/after PhD graduation , using the average number of citations as measurements . 
Note that in Table 1 , we select “ authoritative authors ” ( AAs ) as those whose h‐indices are 40 or more , and the number of AAs in this data set is 35 . 
This criterion of selecting AAs was adopted by Amjad et al . 
( 2017 ) with the same data set . 
We consider these indicators as essentially twofold . 
On the one hand , we divide the publications of researchers based on whether they are collaborative articles and whether the coauthors include AAs , forming three types—coauthored with AAs , coauthored with non‐AAs , and working independently—to separately examine the different features of collaborations before and after researchers ' Ph.D. graduation . 
On the other hand , in the two types working collaboratively , we examine whether there are any differences between two similar but distinct indicators—the number of collaborations and the number of unique collaborators . 
Here , represents the i th component which resulted from PCA , is the j th observed variables in data set , is the k th factor which resulted from EFA , is the value of the j th parameters , is the value of the k th factor , m is the number of factors , n is the number of observed variables , and is the number of components obtained by PCA . 
From Formulas 4 and 5 , we can see that EFA represents the variables as the linear combination of common factors while PCA uses principal components as the linear combination of the variables , showing a different direction of representation . 
Theoretically , the difference of the principle in the two methods is that PCA utilizes prior information while EFA does not . 
From both mathematical and theoretical perspectives , this difference gives EFA a better capability to interpret the factors and their internal relationships without prior information . 
The results of our study on topic diversity of collaborators are shown in Figure 3 , where the degree of darkness is proportional to the number of authors who exhibit certain collaborators ' topic similarity and h‐indices . 
It is clear that collaborators of high‐impact authors have fewer topic similarities , in that their collaborators are more diverse in research areas . 
This indicates that their collaborators can have relatively different research focuses , where the higher impact an author has , the more research topic diversity his/her collaborators have . 
In fact , the “ difference ” in terms of research topic , to some extent , leads to trans‐topic or even transdisciplinary studies . 
Transdisciplinary study yields specific benefits , such as handling high levels of complexity and enhancing innovation ( Xu et al. , 2015a ) . 
Basically , researchers in different fields can broaden their domain horizons and lead transdisciplinary studies that benefit researchers by encouraging novel ideas and fresh perspectives . 
When traditional Library and Information Studies ( LIS ) researchers , for example , work with those in computer science , they can learn advanced algorithms and gradually use them in their own works . 
Bringing the Author‐Conference‐Topic model ( Tang et al. , 2008a ) into scientific collaboration research ( Ding , 2011 ) is a good case for this . 
Also , researchers in different research areas may provide better explanations , broader backgrounds , clearer logic , and deeper discussions to a project , which will benefit resulting articles . 
Essentially , an author with more collaborators has a higher level of sociability , which to a large extent helps them achieve success . 
Our findings suggest that high‐impact authors tend to pursue diverse‐topic collaborations , which confirms the conclusions of Schaltegger et al . 
( 2013 ) and Xu , Ding , Song , and Chambers ( 2015b ) . 
The authors ' h‐indices and their collaborators ' topic similarity/diversity ( the larger the topic similarities of authors ' collaborators have , the less diverse their collaborators are in terms of research topic ; the darker an area is in this figure , the more researchers whose collaborators have corresponding h‐index and topic similarity ) . 
[ Color figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com ] The results of analyzing the impact diversity of collaborators are shown in Table 2 , in which the larger NSD indicates that the author 's collaborators are more diverse in terms of impact ( h‐index ) . 
Obviously , high‐impact authors show higher NSD , which indicates that the influence of the higher‐impact authors ' collaborators is more diverse . 
This finding is different from conventional wisdom , where researchers are thought to collaborate with high‐impact authors because they can provide profound knowledge , experience , and resources throughout the collaborations ( Adegbola , 2013 ) . 
But high‐impact authors are often senior researchers in a given discipline while low‐impact authors may be junior scholars or students . 
When collaborating with high‐impact authors , a researcher may not lead the whole research process but may instead focus on certain details of the work ; yet in the cases that researchers ' h‐indices are higher than their collaborators ' , they might lead the whole research efforts and take the responsibility of revising the manuscript and guiding collaborators ( Kumar & Ratnavelu , 2016 ) . 
The fact that they handle macro‐level issues ( e.g . 
leading the research ) during collaborations with lower‐impact collaborators shows a more significant role they play than when collaborating with high‐impact collaborators . 
