Citations are the cornerstone of knowledge propagation in science , the principal means of assessing the quality of research and directing investments in science as well as one of the pillars of the scholarship architecture . 
Currently , we are witnessing a crucial change in the way research is conducted and science progresses ( Bechhofer et al. , 2013 ) . 
We are rapidly transitioning towards the fourth paradigm of science ( i.e. , data‐intensive scientific discovery ) , where data are as vital to scientific progress as traditional publications are . 
Data and scholarship are increasingly interwoven and new concepts such as “ data scholarship ” ( Borgman , 2015 ) and “ data‐intensive research ” ( Hey & Trefethen , 2005 ) are becoming popular and central to the academic and scientific world . 
Experimental and observational data and scientific models are born digital , and this move to digital content has to be taken into account by scholarly publications , credit attribution processes , and scientific and economic impact measurement . 
Vast amounts of scientific data—molecular , geospatial , astronomical , pharmacological , and more—are now collected and made available in structured , evolving , and often distributed databases ( Buneman , Davidson , & Frew , 2016 ) ; relevant examples of widely used and accessible scientific databases are the pharmacological IUPHAR/BPS11 http : //www.guidetopharmacology.org/ database , the Eagle‐i22 https : //www.eagle‐i.net/ biomedical data set , the DrugBank33 https : //www.drugbank.ca/ bioinformatics and cheminformatics database , the Reactome44 http : //www.reactome.org/ pathways database , and the VADMC55 http : //portal.vamdc.org/vamdc_portal/home.seam federated database of atomic and molecular data . 
Moreover , the scientific community is taking action to promote an open research culture ( Nosek et al. , 2015 ) and effective means to share , discover , and access scientific data that too often still remain “ hidden ” at their origin or are shared in suboptimal ways ( Ohno‐machado et al. , 2015 ) . 
Indeed , as a matter of good scientific practice , scientific databases are recommended to be FAIR ( Findable , Accessible , Interoperable , and Reusable ) ( Wilkinson et al. , 2016 ) and accessible from the articles referring to or using them ( Cousijn et al. , 2017 ) . 
Since scientific works and publications increasingly rely on curated databases , traditional references are starting to be placed alongside references to data ; hence , scientific publishers ( e.g. , Elsevier , PLoS , Springer , Nature ) have been defining data policies and author guidelines to include data citations in the reference lists ( Cousijn et al. , 2017 ; Walton , 2010 ) . 
At the institutional level , within the Horizon 2020 program , the European Commission has introduced the Open Research Data Pilot ( ODP ) , which aims to improve and maximize the access to and reuse of research data and to increase the credit given to data creators ; in the same vein , also the National Science Foundation ( NSF ) and the National Institutes of Health ( NIH ) in the United States and the Economic and Social Research Council in the United Kingdom ask researchers applying for grants to provide data management plans describing how the data they use and produce will be shared and referenced ( MacKenzie , 2012 ; Spengler , 2012 ) . 
There is also evidence that : i ) scientists respond to incentives and that increasing citation would drive software development and data sharing ( Niemeyer , Smith , & Katz , 2016 ) ; ii ) research activity increases when outputs are formally counted ( McNaught , 2015 ) ; and iii ) direct citations to data sets stimulate more data curation and data sharing than indirect citations through publications ( Belter , 2014 ) . 
Moreover , fundamental aspects of scientific research , such as reproducibility of experiments , the availability and discovery of scientific data , and the connection between scientific results with the data providing evidence , have been found to be closely connected with data citation ( Honor , Haselgrove , Frazier , & Kennedy , 2016 ) . 
As a consequence , there is a strong demand ( CODATA , 2013 ; FORCE11 , 2014 ; RDA , 2016 ) to give databases the same scholarly status of traditional references and to define a shared methodology to cite data . 
Nevertheless , none of the largest citation‐based systems—that is , Elsevier Scopus , Thompson Reuters Web of Science , Microsoft Academia , and Google Scholar—consistently take into account scientific data sets as targeted objects for use in academic work . 
The Thompson Reuters ( now Clarivate Analytics ) Data Citation Index ( DCI ) ( Force , Robinson , Matthews , Auld , & Boletta , 2016 ) is one notable exception that aggregates information about the usage of data . 
The DCI is an infrastructure that keeps track of data usage in the scientific domain , which indexes a number of scientific data sets , allows for discovering the data sets selected and validated by Thompson Reuters and provides the technical means to connect entire data sets or repositories to scientific papers . 
On the other hand , DCI is still in its infancy , “ has yet to be proven cost‐effective or efficient ” ( Mayernik , Hart , Mauli , & Weber , 2017 , p. 1343 ) and presents skewed citation patterns ( Robinson‐Garcia , Jiménez‐Contreras , & Torres‐Salinas , 2016 ) . 
Therefore , given a data set , we still do not have any quantitative , consistent , and established way of knowing how it has been used over time , what analyses have been conducted on it , what results have been yielded , who contributed to its curation , and which data subsets have been relevant or impactful for scientific and economic development ( Honor et al. , 2016 ) . 
This is mainly due to the lack of a “ persistent and deep mechanism for citing data ” ( Ingwersen & Chavan , 2011 , p. 3 ) . 
Indeed , citation rules and practices have stratified over centuries and are well established for text but less so for data ( Borgman , 2015 ) . 
Data citations and traditional paper‐based citations have a common intent , but present some epistemological differences that have not yet been fully analyzed and comprehended . 
Among other things , these differences impact the very use of data citations in bibliometrics ( and more generally , in infometrics ) as pointed out by Borgman ( 2016 , p. 94 ) : “ [ the ] leap from citing publications to citing data is a vast one [ and the transfer of ] bibliographic citation principles to data must be done carefully and selectively. ” Indeed , bibliometrics is based on publications in the sense of scholarly communications and data do not necessarily qualify as such ( Mayernik , Callaghan , Leigh , Tedds , & Worley , 2015 ) . 
Bibliometrics relies on the distinction between reference and citation where a reference is the acknowledgement that one document gives to another ; a citation is the acknowledgement that one document receives from another ( Narin , 1976 ) . 
Whereas , in data citation , this distinction is often blurred and reference and citation are treated as identical signs . 
Moreover , another distinctive feature of bibliometrics is reciprocal citations , which are hardly possible with data citations , since data may receive citations but can not cite something else . 
Nevertheless , data citations are often referred to as “ formal ways to ground the research findings in a manuscript , upon their supporting evidence , when that evidence consists of externally archived datasets ” ( Cousijn et al. , 2017 ) and it is argued that citations to data should be placed in the reference list section , as published works are ( Altman , 2012 ; Corti , Van den Eynden , Bishop , & Woollard , 2014 ; Park & Wolfram , 2017 ) . 
Hence , a data citation could be indicated with the triple { R , C , D } , where R is the reference paper , C is the citation , and D is the data set—that is , the object of the citation . 
In this context , the major practical issues for citing data regard the definition and the creation of the text snippet to be included in the reference list of R and the identification and retrieval of D . 
In addition , we must consider that data are more complex and varied than documents ( Castelli , Manghi , & Thanos , 2013 ; Wynholds , Wallis , Borgman , Sands , & Traweek , 2012 ) and they introduce new challenges with respect to traditional publications . 
Indeed , text publications have a fixed form , do not change over time , are interpretable as independent units , share a common format and representation model , and are composed of predetermined , albeit domain‐dependent , sets of citable units ( e.g. , authors , title , pages ) . 
By contrast , scientific data sets are structured according to diverse data models—for example , relational , hierarchical ( XML ) , graph‐based ( RDF ) —and accessed with specific query languages—for example , SQL , XPath/XQuery , SPARQL . 
Data citable units range from a single datum to data subsets or aggregations specified on the fly with great variability , and deciding a priori what can be cited and what can not , is not ( always ) feasible . 
Data evolve over time , but data citations must be diachronic : they must be consistent over time and always lead back to the original cited data . 
A data reference ( or citation snippet ) is required to allow the data to be understood and correctly interpreted and it must be composed of the essential information for identifying the cited data as well as contextual information . 
Such contextual information must be extracted from the given data set and/or from external sources automatically , because we can not assume one knows how to access and select additional relevant data and to structure them appropriately ( Hourclé , 2012 ) . 
The role of contextual information is of critical importance if we consider the potential , albeit undesirable , situation where data references may survive to the data themselves . 
Data citation is a complex problem , having both theoretical/conceptual and practical/technical implications that have been investigated both by information science and computer science . 
The former discipline has been mainly concerned with the motivations—the “ why ” of data citation—as well as with the principles of this field and the main features of citation systems expressed in terms of recommendations—the “ what ” of data citation . 
The latter discipline has been mainly concerned with the computational problems arising from data citation and the design of systems for automating the citation of data—the “ how ” of data citation . 
The field of data citation can be likened to a broken mirror where each single piece of glass reflects a different facet of the problem . 
Therefore , it is difficult to get a complete picture of the matter , which is nevertheless fundamental for providing a shared theory of data citation as well as a sound data citation system . 
This paper aims to describe the lay of the land for data citation both from the theoretical ( the why and what ) and the practical ( the how ) angle . 
Moreover , we provide an overview of the most pressing open problems in data citation as well as some related research directions for information and computer science . 
Literature search was conducted as a four‐stage process . 
The first stage was a journal database search based on a key term search in Google Scholar and Scopus . 
We searched for the exact key phrase “ data citation ” and we discarded most of the papers regarding citation data analysis , which are out of scope for this review . 
We analyzed articles that cover data citation as a need/service/tool to be employed in a specific domain ( e.g. , biology or pharmacology ) and articles discussing the principles and the technical aspects of data citation . 
We did not consider articles about data publishing , sharing , and reuse if they did not explicitly mention data citation . 
In the second stage , we analyzed articles published in discipline‐specific venues ( both journals and conferences ) ; in particular , we considered information science , digital libraries , and computer science with a specific focus on information management and access systems . 
In the third stage , we conducted a general search for the “ data citation ” key‐phrase by employing general‐purpose web search engines . 
This allowed us to look for relevant blog entries , white papers , and publisher webpages . 
As a final stage , we scanned ( recursively ) the reference list of the papers selected in the previous stages for additional relevant items . 
The main motivation advocating the importance of data citation is that “ data generated in the course of research are just as valuable to the ongoing academic discourse as papers and monographs ” ( Ball & Duke , 2012 , p. 2 ) ; moreover , data citation is becoming central in science because of the great production of data , new research tools for managing , accessing , analyzing , and sharing data and the shift of research policy that has been happening in recent years ( Borgman , 2012a ) . 
The centrality of data citation is widely recognized across many scientific fields , ranging from the earth sciences , physics , and biology to information studies and social sciences . 
The need for a standard citation mechanism to give credit to data collectors and to locate and examine the data used in investigations is a long‐standing requirement also in the computer science area , especially for database management ( French , Jones , & Pfaltz , 1990 ) . 
Data citation has many facets , and it is needed to satisfy several requirements , depending at times on the specific discipline in question . 
Despite this heterogeneity , we have identified six main motivations for data citations that are shared in many different scientific fields : Data attribution : Scientific data are collected and curated with a great deal of work and in many cases this is done directly by qualified scientists and researchers . 
Giving credit to the people involved in the creation and curation of data is important for scientific recognition ( Tenopir et al. , 2011 ) . 
Data attribution opens up the need to identify the author or the person responsible for data with variable granularity ; indeed , in many fields it is not enough to give credit to the person who manages the data set as a whole , as there may be different groups of authors for different subsets of data within the same data set . 
Parsons ( 2012 ) and Borgman ( 2015 ) relate the concept of attribution to that of accountability for the data , since if we can identify who is responsible for the data , we know who gets the merit for the data as well as who can be held accountable for them . 
Data connection : Data citation methods are required to connect scientific papers with the underlying data on which they are based . 
Castelli et al . 
( 2013 , p. 158 ) indicate data citation as the “ main mechanism enabling the alignment and integration between data and publications in the scientific communication process. ” This is also the idea behind executable papers or enhanced publications ( Vernooy‐Gerritsen , 2009 ) that link data with textual publications allowing the data to be consulted or downloaded while reading a scientific paper in a digital form as well . 
Several studies ( Aalbersberg , Heeman , Koers , & Zudilova‐Seinstra , 2012 ; Attwood et al. , 2010 ; Bardi & Manghi , 2014 ; Brammer , Crosby , Matthews , & Williams , 2011 ; Jankowski , Scharnhorst , Tatum , & Tatum , 2012 ) have been dedicated to the definition and realization of enhanced publications , and they all to some extent require a methodology for citing data ( and software/code ) ( Niemeyer et al. , 2016 ) . 
There is also the emerging idea of using data citation in conjunction with the Linked Data paradigm to create a “ claim network evidence ” spanning different documents ( de Waard , 2012 ; Silvello , 2015 ) . 
The idea is to back up claims in scientific papers with the data providing evidence for their validity . 
Data discovery : Being able to cite data means being able to identify , reach , access , and retrieve a data set or a subset of a data set , which are the fundamental operations required to make data discoverable . 
Furthermore , data citations may act as entry points to hidden data sources that are not indexed by search engines , and thus are virtually unreachable to all those scientists who do not have the knowledge and the means to reach and interrogate these data sources . 
Data sharing : The possibility of citing data and thus of giving credit to data scientists and institutions is considered a decisive factor for augmenting the willingness of scientists to share data . 
Indeed , since the technological factor is no longer an impediment to data sharing , the main barrier still standing is the fear scientists have of losing a competitive advantage while “ receiving no credit and losing funding or publishing opportunities ” ( Mooney & Newton , 2012 , p. 2 ) . 
Data sharing is a condition for enabling data discovery and data reuse , as well as one of the main factors for the success of the Linked Data paradigm in the scientific context . 
To this end , Bechhofer et al . 
( 2013 ) highlighted that Linked Data is a compelling approach for sharing and disseminating scientific data , but in order to be effective for data reuse and discovery it has to be connected to the research methodology and respect the rights and the reputation of the researchers . 
Data impact : Citing data allows us to define new usage metrics for determining the impact of data ; data impact can be interpreted as a way to measure or discover which results have been obtained using the data , how many times they have been used , where they have been used , and so on . 
Note that in the literature , data impact is , frequently , intended as the rate of data usage and not as a quality measure . 
This aspect is particularly important for public and private funding agencies that often invest in the creation of scientific data set as well as research infrastructures ; data citation is required to estimate the use of data going beyond alternative metrics such as altmetrics ( Mayernik , Hart , Mauli , & Weber , 2017 ) . 
de Waard ( 2016 ) pointed out that “ making data citable ” is one of the 10 main characteristics for unlocking the potential of research data ; in particular , being able to cite data is important for increasing research exposure . 
There are also voices calling for considering data citations for bibliometrics with the purpose of evaluating research performances of institutions and individuals ( Costello , 2009 ; Parr , 2007 ) . 
Moreover , funding agencies underline the need to cite data for measuring the impact of researchers working with data ( Ahalt et al. , 2015 ) in order to “ help people in career advancements and make their contribution clear ” ( Spengler , 2012 , p. 177 ) . 
On the other hand , the use of citation data ( e.g. , citation count and citation indexes and databases ) for evaluating scholarship and funding distribution also raises ethical and policy issues ( Borgman , 2016 ; Garfield & Welljams‐Dorof , 1992 ; Furner , 2014 ) when applied both to traditional and data citations . 
In particular , for data citations , given the current absence of “ norms of citing behavior , ” we have to be even more careful by considering that they can not be straightforwardly analogized to paper citations ( Stuart , 2017 ) . 
Reproducibility : Data citation has a profound impact on the reproducibility of science ( Baggerly , 2010 ) , a hot topic in many disciplines such as astronomy ( Kurtz , 2012 ) , biology ( Bloom , Ganly , & Winker , 2014 ) , physics , computer science ( Ferro , 2017 ; Freire , Fuhr , & Rauber , 2016 ) , and more . 
Lately , several authoritative journals have been requesting the sharing of data and the provision of validation methodologies for experiments ( e.g. , Nature Scientific Data and Nature Physics ) ; these publications and the publishing industry in general see data citation as the means for providing new , reliable , and usable means for sharing and referring to scientific data . 
In Table 1 we present a summary of the main motivations for data citation as presented by several papers discussing this topic from different perspectives and application domains . 
We can see that data attribution and reproducibility are the core topics motivating data citation , followed by data sharing . 
Data connection has been gaining traction in recent years as it is closely related to reproducibility . 
Data discovery and data impact are growing and becoming central motivations for data citation , especially within the information studies , data publication , and data curation fields . 
These motivations explain why data citation is needed for scholarly communications and they constitute a prior analysis of why data should/must be cited . 
From these motivations , though , we can not infer the reasons why authors decide to cite data and their data‐citing behavior . 
To this end , we should reconsider the meaning of data citations , as it may differ from textual citations ( Mayernik , 2012 ) and “ we should ask whether the motivations for citing data are the same as for citing research papers ” ( Robinson‐Garcia et al. , 2016 , p. 2965 ) . 
In the context of traditional publications , there are different theories of citation ( Leydesdorff , 1998 ) analyzing why we cite ( Cozzens , 1981 ) and when we cite ( Garfield , 1996 ) . 
In particular , it has been pointed out that citations can be seen from a normative perspective as ways to acknowledge intellectual debt ( Kaplan , 1965 ) . 
Alternatively , citations are seen as a means for persuasion , since scientific papers have the role of convincing people of the validity of claims and providing support for them ( Gilbert , 1977 ) ; or as symbols relating the author 's own private interpretation of the reference with the cited paper itself ( Small , 1978 ) . 
Garfield ( 1996 ) listed 15 major reasons for citation and Cronin ( 1984 ) reported several alternative citation categories and typologies defined over the years , to conclude that there is reason to believe that “ there are no absolute and exclusive categories which fully describe the relationship of a citing publication to the cited publication ” ( Lipetz , 1965 , p. 19 ) . 
Nonetheless , textual analysis of the citing paper could suggest a plausible explanation about why an author cites as s/he does ( Cronin , 1981 ) ; moreover , given that the citation process is “ subjective and inhospitable to standardization ” ( Cronin , 1981 , p. 17 ) , we have to rely on “ ostensible reasons for citation or reasons which can be adduced from the context of the citing work ” ( Frost , 1979 , p. 401 ) . 
For data citation , we can find just a few works specifically considering the context of the citing work ( Kafkas , Kim , & McEntyre , 2013 ; Piwowar & Vision , 2013 ) in order to understand why data are cited . 
This is also due to the fact that data citations “ are useful for the discovery of links , but less so for understanding why the link was made ” ( Mayernik et al. , 2015 ) . 
Mayernik et al . 
( 2017 , p. 1354 ) are among the few hypothesizing that data may be cited as “ forms of reward to data providers , ” as a “ quid pro quo for the data provider support , ” or as a “ persuasive statement illustrating how data of high visibility or sufficient quality underlie a scientific result. ” Up to now , we can only find isolated and sporadic efforts to understand why data are cited . 
However , a shared effort for defining a theory of data citing is very much needed , especially before we could “ safely ” employ bibliometrics for data citations given that “ with limited understanding of the norms of data publishing and data citation , too early an emphasis on metrics may do damage to the nascent data ecosystem ” ( Stuart , 2017 , p. 428 ) . 
To this end , we may recall that the development of a citation theory ( and the study of citations as a serious academic subject ) emerged as a consequence of the successful development of commercial citation indexes ( Cronin , 1984 ) . 
Hence , for data citation , the Thomson‐Reuters DCI ( and other indexes that may emerge in the next years ) can play a role in the study of a theory of data citation . 
In particular , the DCI has been used to investigate why data are cited in Genetics and Heredity ( Park & Wolfram , 2017 ) and in the Humanities ( Robinson‐Garcia et al. , 2016 ) . 
A similar study was carried out , long before the DCI was established , by White ( 1982 ) , who conducted an analysis of data citations in the context of social sciences . 
All these studies concluded that the acknowledgement of data usage is the prior motivation for citing a data set . 
Other studies ( Fear , 2013 ; Kafkas et al. , 2013 ; Weber , Mayernik , & Worley , 2014 ) corroborated this result by suggesting that the number of citations to a data set correlates with its usage rate . 
Thus , from these initial and circumscribed analyses , it emerges that a strong motivation for an author to cite a data set is to acknowledge the fact that s/he used it in his/her research . 
Having said that , it is complex to define what is meant by “ usage , ” and data citation requires “ a more nuanced understanding of data ‘ use ’ to be effective ” ( Wynholds et al. , 2012 , p. 22 ) . 
The principles of data citation have been extensively described ( CODATA , 2013 ) and then aggregated , summarized , revised , and endorsed by the Joint Declaration of Data Citation Principles ( JDDCP ) ( FORCE11 , 2014 ) . 
These principles can be classified into two main groups : the former states the role of data citation in scholarly and research activities and the latter defines the main guidelines a data citation methodology and system should respect . 
In the first group , we find importance , credit and attribution , evidence , verifiability , and interoperability . 
Importance coincides with the first motivation for data citation we presented above , which is that data should be considered as a first‐class citizen in the science panorama and thus be treated as any other scholarly record and scientific paper . 
This principle is foundational for data citation , because it opens up the use of data for assessing the work of individuals and institutions , for defining new impact measures , and for directing investments in research . 
This calls for a change of policy in research that invests in public institutions as well as in publishing houses and individual researchers . 
Furthermore , the principle of importance of data opens up a plethora of theoretical issues that have been only partially discussed in the literature and call for new research ; Borgman ( 2016 ) points out several theoretical problems of data citation , mainly due to the lack of agreement of what constitutes data , among which the fact that data are different from traditional publications and require a new set of theoretical premises for bibliometrics considering how citation practices differ between genres of publications and data . 
Moreover , there is not a shared vision about which data could or should by cited , also considering that different application domains call for different data citation practices accounting for references to primary data sources , raw data ( e.g. , sensor or streaming data ) , postprocessing data , or formatted data as tables and plots . 
The JDDCP principles of credit and attribution , evidence , and verifiability correspond to the some of the motivations for data citation identified above ; indeed , citation to data should give credit to people and institutions involved in their creation and curation and scientific claims should be related by the specific data supporting them . 
Within traditional publications , the accepted protocol for credit and attribution is for a publication to include “ in‐text citations and a reference section that uniquely lists those cited publications ” ( Honor et al. , 2016 , p. 2 ) . 
Also in the context of data citation , every citation should come with a citation text—that is , citation snippet or reference text—which describes the object being cited and should contain enough information to give credit to data creators and curators , to understand the motive of the citation and the meaning of the cited object , to locate the object referred to as evidence , and to verify that the located object is semantically identical to the cited one ( Altman & King , 2007 ; Altman , 2012 ) . 
The citation snippet should be human‐ and machine‐readable ; human‐readable snippets are required to give an immediate sense of a citation even to nonexperts without requiring access to the data being referred to by the citation ( Kafkas , Kim , Pi , & McEntyre , 2015 ; Silvello & Ferro , 2016 ; Van de Sompel , 2012 ) . 
Machine‐readable snippets are required for automatic processing of the citation information and they can contain more exhaustive information than human‐readable ones ; for instance , we may have hundreds of contributors for a given data set that can be exhaustively reported only in a machine‐readable snippet . 
To this end , a fundamental requirement for citation methods is to automatically create citation snippets in order to ensure consistency of references ( Thorisson , 2009 ) . 
Indeed , recent studies about data citation practices showed that data citation snippets are often underspecified , with vital information missing ( Mathiak & Boland , 2015 ) , and may present several errors compromising the identification and retrieval of the data being cited ( Henderson & Kotz , 2015 ) . 
Automatic methods for building citation snippets are also required because humans can not remember or know what the necessary information is , when a snippet is complete , what the citation format requires in a given context , and where to gather the relevant information , especially in a big data context where manual exploration of data is unfeasible ( Buneman et al. , 2014 ; Crosas et al. , 2015 ; Jagadish , 2015 ; Minister , 2012 ; Peters , Kraker , Lex , Gumpenberger , & Gorraiz , 2016 ) . 
The problem of automatic citation snippet creation has been clearly defined ( Buneman et al. , 2016 , p. 52 ) from a database management system perspective : “ Given a database D and a query Q , generate an appropriate citation ” ; in this context , the term database and query are used in a very general way to refer to any mechanism used to extract the data from a generic source . 
Borgman ( 2012a , b , 2016 ) , Buneman et al . 
( 2000 ) , and Groth ( 2012 ) also outlined the relationship between provenance and data citation . 
Provenance information should be included in a citation snippet in order to cite the correct version , manipulation , and transformation of data . 
This aspect is of particular relevance to cite meta‐analyses conducted on raw or curated data in order to cite and keep track of the original data set as well as of the transformations and manipulations of the data . 
The consistency and completeness of citation snippets within a discipline is a concern also from the metadata viewpoint . 
